Summary of projects

Project ACR215
The project activity is a bundling project of several ceramic industries located in the Açu region, State of Rio Grande do Norte, northeast of Brazil. The ceramic factories used exclusively non-renewable woody biomass from the Caatinga biome as fuel (wood without sustainable forest management, also referred as native firewood). The use of this type of non-renewable biomass is a common practice in the ceramic industry sector. On the other hand, the project activity focuses on the use of renewable biomass for thermal energy supply. The fuel switching, from non-renewable biomass to renewable biomass (available in the region) was not expected in absence of the project activity, once there were no incentives to support the fuel switching. In order to utilize renewable biomass in a proper way, most of the ceramic companies will have to invest in new equipments to allow an efficient use of renewable biomass as fuel. The carbon credits are an important component to make this Project feasible.


Project ACR220
The project activity is a bundling project of several plaster industries located in the Araripina region, State of Pernambuco, northeast of Brazil. The plaster factories used exclusively non-renewable woody biomass from the Caatinga biome as fuel (wood without sustainable forest management). The use of this type of non-renewable biomass is a common practice in the plaster industry sector. On the other hand, the project activity focuses on the use of renewable biomass for thermal energy supply. The fuel switching, from non-renewable biomass to renewable biomass (available in the region) was not expected in absence of the project activity, once there were no incentives to support the fuel switching. The Caatinga biome has one of the highest deforestation rate on Brazil, and the consumption of wood as fuel is a major driver for deforestation in the biome. In addition, the Araripina region concentrates more than 90% of the plaster production in Brazil, where more than 70% consume firewood.


Project ACR219
This is a project involving swine confinement farms in Brazil, aiming to improve animal manure management systems, reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions and improving the living conditions of the population on the project sites. The purpose of this project is to reduce GHG emissions associated to swine waste management and to contribute to sustainable development. The project proposes to replace the baseline Animal Waste Management Systems (AWMS) by a lower-GHG emitting AWMS, by installing mechanized composting units instead of anaerobic lagoons on swine farms, avoiding methane emissions. The final compost obtained will be used to fertilize cultivated soil or sold to local consumers. The automated composting system is a new concept in the treatment of swine manure. It favors a clean and sustainable production and reduces environmental risks associated to manure management. In addition, this system diverges significantly from the common practice in the project region.


Project ACR216
The project activity is a bundling project of several ceramic industries located in the State of Ceará, northeast of Brazil. The ceramic factories used exclusively non-renewable woody biomass from the Caatinga biome as fuel (wood without sustainable forest management). The use of this type of non-renewable biomass is a common practice in the ceramic industry sector. On the other hand, the project activity focuses on the use of renewable biomass for thermal energy supply. The fuel switching, from non-renewable biomass to renewable biomass (available in the region) was not expected in absence of the project activity, once there were no incentives to support the fuel switching. In order to utilize renewable biomass in a proper way, most of the ceramic companies will have to invest in new equipments to allow an efficient use of renewable biomass as fuel. The revenues from the carbon credit are an important component to make this project feasible.


Project ACR217
The project activity is a bundling project of several ceramic industries located in the São Luís region, which is the capital of the State of Maranhão, northeast of Brazil. The ceramic factories used exclusively non-renewable woody biomass from the Amazon biome as fuel (wood without sustainable forest management). The use of this type of non-renewable biomass is a common practice in the ceramic industry sector. On the other hand, the project activity focuses on the use of renewable biomass for thermal energy supply. The fuel switching, from non-renewable biomass to renewable biomass (available in the region) was not expected in absence of the project activity, once there were no incentives to support the fuel switching. In order to utilize renewable biomass in a proper way, most of the ceramic companies will have to invest in new equipments to allow an efficient use of renewable biomass as fuel. The carbon credit are an important component to make this project feasible.


Project ACR218
The project activity is a bundling project of several small ceramic industries located in the Seridó region, northeast of Brazil. The ceramic factories used exclusively non-renewable woody biomass from the Caatinga biome as fuel (wood without sustainable forest management). The use of this type of non-renewable biomass is a common practice in the ceramic industry sector. On the other hand, the project activity focuses on the use of renewable biomass for thermal energy supply. The fuel switching, from non-renewable biomass to renewable biomass (available in the region) was not expected in absence of the project activity, once there were no incentives to support the fuel switching. In order to utilize renewable biomass in a proper way, most of the ceramic companies will have to invest in new equipments, such as automatic feeders, to allow an efficient use of renewable biomass as fuel. The revenues from the carbon credit are an important component to make this project feasible.


Project GS2290
Buenos Aires Ceramic is a red ceramic factory located in Buenos Aires municipality, in the state of Pernambuco, northeastern Brazil. The ceramic factory produces ceramic bricks and flagstones, mainly for the regional market in Pernambuco. Buenos Aires Ceramic Fuel Switching Project was validated on April 2010 under the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and Social Carbon Methodology. The project activity is applying for Gap Analysis from VCS and SOCIALCARBON® Standard to Gold Standard, via a gap analysis validation. The voluntary project activity avoids GHG emissions by the substitution of non-renewable biomass with renewable biomass to generate thermal energy in the process  of burning ceramic devices.


Project GS3434
The objective of the Uberlândia landfills I and II is to collect the landfill gas produced in the Uberlândia Landfill and use it to generate electricity. A total capacity of 2.80 MW will be installed, composed by 2 engines with individual capacity of 1.4 MW each. The project is expected to export 354,968 MWh during its lifetime.Uberlândia Landfill comprises two adjoining solid waste disposal sites (SWDS), named Landfill I and Landfill II, both owned and operated by Limpebrás Resíduos Ltda. (Project Participant). The Landfill I started operating in July of 1995 and stopped receiving waste in September 2010. The Landfill II started operating in October 2010 with the same environmental care applied to the previous disposal site and counts on a qualified and multidisciplinary team of technicians. The landfill has a total area of 300,000 m2, with 200,000 m2 dedicated to disposal of waste, being able to receive till 4,500,000 m3 of solid waste for an approximately 18 years of lifetime. All the area was sealed with a membrane of High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) and compacted clay in order to protect the phreatic layer from contamination. The leachate generated in each landfill is given a different treatment. For Landfill I the leachate is treated at an ascendant flow anaerobic reactor followed by an anaerobic filter and then sent to the Uberabinha’s sewage treatment station (ETE Uberabinha) through municipal canalization. The leachate from Landfill II, after being analysed by the Municipal Department of Water and Sewage (Departamento Municipal de Água e Esgoto – DMAE), was authorized to be directly sent to the ETE Uberabinha without previous treatment. In this Project the Landfill I and the Landfill II were considered as a sole SDWS, since the area surrounding the two sites, including them, is owned and operated by Limpebrás Resíduos Ltda. and they are physically near enough to permit the joint operation. In fact, only a 27 m width road used exclusively for the landfilling operation separates the two sites, and the gas station and power plant of the proposed project activity are planned to be installed on the roadside between the Landfill I and Landfill II. Therefore, the estimative of emissions of methane from SWDS considered the two sites as one single SWDS.The scenario existing prior to the implementation of the Uberlândia landfills I and II project activity at the Uberlândia Landfill is the operation of the landfill with uncontrolled emission of the LFG (landfill gas) generated to the atmosphere, i.e. the LFG generated due to the decomposition of the organic matter is vented through the vertical wells installed at the landfill’s area. As will be demonstrated ahead, the existing scenario and the baseline scenario are the same.Emissions associated with the baseline scenario are the CH4 emissions due to the atmospheric release of the LFG and CO2 emissions due to the power generation from fossil-fuel power-plants. With the implementation of the project, the LFG previously released will be collected through the installation of pipelines and emission reduction will be achieved through the destruction of the gas collected in a flaring system and in the power plant. Additionally, the project will export renewable electricity to the grid, avoiding the dispatch of the same amount of electricity from fossil-fuel based power plants in the Brazilian National Grid.The project will bring benefits to sustainable development, as follows:-Increase of local environmental quality: the project will contribute not only through the avoidance of GHG emissions to the atmosphere, but also by displacing the fossil fuel consumption from power plants connected to the Brazilian Electric Grid. The project might also be seen as a good practice of correct solid waste final disposal;-Labour capaciting / Income generation: the project will need qualified operators to maintain the gas collection wells and pipeline and to operate the degassing station and the power plant. A team composed by engineers and technicians will be created and trained by international consultants and manufacturers. The revenues of these personnel will be above the market, as the technology employed is new in the Uberlândia region;-Integration with different sectors: using LFG to generate electricity is relatively new in Brazil – some projects were developed only under the CDM and only a few of them are indeed generating electricity (like the Bandeirantes Landfill Gas to Energy Project, São João Landfill Gas to Energy Project and Exploitation of the biogas from Controlled Landfill in Solid Waste Management Central – CTRS / BR.040). Therefore, the project will have an enormous contribution over the integration with the electric sectors.Project start date: 03/05/2011This is the date of creation of Energas Geração de Energia Ltda., composed by Limpebrás Resíduos Ltda. and Asja Brasil Serviços para o Meio Ambiente Ltda. exclusively for the development of the Project.


Project GS6050
This project will benefit 3,000 low-income, rural families in the Recôncavo region of Bahia, Brazil, replacing rudimentary wood-burning stoves with efficient cookstoves. Benefits include emissions reductions, protection of the Atlantic Rainforest and cleaner homes.


Project GS3122
The project consists of a collection, transport and treatment system for landfill gas with production of electricity for self-consumption and incorporation to the national grid. Since the landfill gas major constituent is methane, whose GHG potential is 21 times greater than CO2, the Project reduces emissions of GHG into the atmosphere by means of methane destruction in high temperature flares and displacement of electricity generated from fossil fuel sources.


Project GS832
The Efficient Cookstoves Project is an initiative developed and executed by the Brazilian NGO Instituto Perene that reduces greenhouse gas emissions by substituting common rudimentary cookstoves with a more efficient technology for domestic use. Five thousand low-income rural families will directly benefit from the project, with especially positive impacts for women and children. In rural areas of the Bahian Recôncavo region, wood is the main fuel used for combustion for cooking by the low income population. The typical cookstoves used by the local population are associated with a number of problems: global warming, due to the emission of unnecessary amounts of greenhouse gases; deforestation, resulting from the high consumption of wood; and damages to health, mainly for women and children who are the victims of indoor air pollution because they are subjected daily to the smoke and particulates produced by typical rural stoves.


Project GS1042
The project activity is the bundled project of five red ceramic factories belonging to Grupo Tavares, a family business that owns several ceramic factories in the State of Ceará, Brazil. The following ceramic factories are included in this project: Antônio Ceramic, Ceará Ceramic, Ceagra Ceramic, Eliane Ceramic and Santa Rita Ceramic. The project includes fuel switching and energy efficiency measures that will reduce the greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions through the substitution of non-renewable biomass for renewable biomasses to generate thermal energy.


Project GS765
The project generates electricity with a thermoelectric power plant (see picture below) using wood waste from an FSC1 certified forest and a wood processing company in the city of Itacoatiara, in the State of Amazonas, Brazil. The electricity is generated with a high-pressure boiler (42 bar – 420° C) and a multiple stage condensing steam turbine coupled with a 9 MWelt generator. The power plant replaces several diesel generators and supplies the local grid of the town of Itacoatiara (approx. 80,000 inhabitants) in a region supplied by 100% diesel fuelled electrical electricity generators.


Project GS11728
The Manaus Landfill Gas Project has been developed at the Manaus Landfill (Site), originally called the Aterro Municipal de Manaus. The Site has received non-hazardous solid municipal, industrial, commercial, institutional, and some agricultural wastes for approximately 20 years. Landfills normally emit carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) into the atmosphere, with these compounds being generated by the anaerobic decomposition of the above-noted wastes placed at the project site. Prior to the implementation of the Project, the Manaus landfill was basically a landfill with has minimal control of surface water and leachate and no control of landfill gas (LFG). The purpose of the project activity is to collect landfill gas (LFG) at the Manaus Landfill and to combust the extracted LFG over a seven year-period, using a high efficient enclosed flare, thereby generating electricity and reducing greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). The project involved the construction of a LFG collection system consisting of horizontal trenches and vertical LFG extraction wells, centrifugal blower(s), and all other supporting mechanical and electrical subsystems and appurtenances necessary to collect the LFG. The LFG collected from the site is combusted in an enclosed LFG flare with full process controls and instrumentation installed and operating. The state-of-the-art flare is capable of providing sufficient temperature and retention time of the extracted LFG for complete destruction of hydrocarbons. 


Project 103
The project activity consists of switching from fossil fuel oil to renewable biomass at Rima Industrial’s plant located in Bocaiúva, Minas Gerais, Brazil. This plant produces metallic magnesium and alloys, both as lingots and powder, and auto parts, the main consumers of which are the steel, aluminium and automobile sectors. The project contributes to local environmental sustainability since it will decrease the use of fuel oil.


Project 1070
The project activity is the project of Buenos Aires Ceramic, which is a redceramic industry localized in Buenos Aires municipality, in the state of Pernambuco, northeast of Brazil.The ceramic industry produces ceramic bricks and flagstones destined mainly for the regional market in Pernambuco. The fuel utilized in the baseline scenario to fire the ceramic units was native wood obtained through deforestation of the Caatinga biome, which is the pioneer practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non renewable biomass, as it is obtained from areas without reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.This project introduced the possibility of switching non-renewable biomass for renewable biomasses in the generation thermal energy. Previously, this switch was unattractive due to high investment costs in upgrading machinery for working with biomasses, in addition to other barriers. This project became financially possible after the ceramic owner incorporated the potential income from the commercialization of the carbon credits.


Project 1076
The Manaus Landfill Gas Project has been developed at the Manaus Landfill (Site), originally called the Aterro Municipal de Manaus. The Site has received non hazardous solid municipal, industrial, commercial, institutional, and some agricultural wastes for approximately 20 years. Landfills normally emit carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) into the atmosphere, with these compounds being generated by the anaerobic decomposition of the above-noted wastes placed at the project site. Prior to the implementation of the Project, the Manaus landfill was basically a landfill with has minimal control of surface water and leachate and no control of landfill gas (LFG).The purpose of the project activity is to collect landfill gas (LFG) at the Manaus Landfill and combust the extracted LFG over a seven year period, utilizing a high efficiency enclosed flare, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and generating Certified Emission Reductions. The project involved the construction of a LFG collection system conssting of horizontal trenches and vertical LFG extraction wells, centrifugal blower(s), and all other supporting mechanical and electrical subsystems and appurtenances necessary to collect the LFG.The LFG collected from the Site is combusted in an enclosed LFG flare with full process controls and instrumentation installed and operating. The state of the art flare is capable of providing sufficient temperature and retention time of the extracted LFG for complete destruction of hydrocarbons.The project activity is located at:Host country: BrazilState: Amazonas Municipality: ManausPhysical location: The Manaus landfill ( 2°57’29.92” S and 60°00’54.74” W) is located 3.5 kilometers (km) north of the City of Manaus, State of Amazonas at Km 19 of Highway AM-010. The Manaus landfill covers an area of 60 hectares (ha) and the current waste fill area of the Site is disposed in 41 ha and there is available space for continued filling.


Project 1094
The Ecomapuá Amazon REDD Project is located on Marajó Island, Pará State, in Brazil’s Eastern Amazon region. The Marajó várzea is a critically  valuable ecosystem, adding to the importance of the present project. The primary objective of the project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation  (AUD) of an 86,269.84ha area within a private property owned by Ecomapuá Conservação Ltda. The present project will achieve predicted net reductions  of 4,253.14ha of deforestation, and 2,170,138 tCO2e emissions over the 30 year project lifetime (01/01/2003 – 31/12/2032). Furthermore, a proportion  of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving social and environmental conditions for local communities. Marajó Island is classified as “extremely high” priority for preservation by the Brazilian Environment Ministry (“MMA”), consequently the Ecomapuá Amazon REDD Project contributes  to National conservation goals and encourages further conservation efforts in and around this critical region.


Project 1112
The Russas Project seeks to help protect and conserve tropical forest by providing payments for ecosystem services. This type of project is known as a Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation project (REDD project). Project activities intended to reduce deforestation are implemented in and around a privately-owned property in the State of Acre, Brazil and are funded by payments related to emission reduction credits generated by the project. This project is being developed and registered under the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and the Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standard (CCBS). Project development involved meeting with the local communities surrounding the project area, engaging Acre state officials working on similar strategies at a regional/state level, developing a plan which will result in lowering the pressure on land and forest resources in consultation with the local community, and putting into operation the REDD project implementation plan.


Project 1113
The Valparaiso Project seeks to help protect and conserve tropical forest by providing payments for ecosystem services. This type of project is known as a Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation project (REDD project). Project activities intended to reduce deforestation are implemented in and around a privately-owned property in the State of Acre, Brazil and are funded by payments related to emission reduction credits generated by the project. This project is being developed and registered under the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) and the Climate, Community and Biodiversity Standard (CCBS). Project development involved meeting with the local communities surrounding the project area, engaging Acre state officials working on similar strategies at a regional/state level, developing a plan which will result in lowering the pressure on land and forest resources in consultation with the local community, and putting into operation the REDD project implementation plan.


Project 1115
REDD+ Project located in the Brazilian Amazon state of Amapá that aims to reduce a total of 3,450,278 tCO2e throughout a 30 year period. Combines Sustainable Forest Management, forest cover and biodiversity monitoring, scientific research and local socioeconomic development. Planned, financed and implemented by 4 the proponents Jari Group and Biofilica.


Project 1142
The Ecofrotas Fleet Fuel Substitution Grouped Project involves the complete substitution of gasoline blends by ethanol in commercial flex-fuel fleets managed by Ecofrotas . As a grouped project, it allows several instances of the same activity to be described under this single document. Besides, new instances can be included in the Grouped Project in the future, as long as they comply with the eligibility criteria. For this project, each commercial fleet managed by Ecofrotas, identified by a code number, is considered an instance.


Project 1147
The Amazon Rio Project consists of a mosaic of four private areas (20,387 ha) in the Manicoré Municipality in the state of Amazonas, Brazil that will be conserved by avoiding planned deforestation (APD). The project activity is based on the cessation of a legally authorised logging plan that had been operational since 1999, added to the implementation of a Management Plan focused on emission reductions, biodiversity conservation, monitoring and sustainable social development in the region, including the promotion of eco-tourism and scientific research. The project will benefit approximately 350 families living in 15 communities surrounding the project area through several socio-economic programs focused on improving access to health, education and income generation, with the purpose of improving the livelihoods of these communities, strengthening their organizational capacity and promoting long-term conservation and sustainability.The Amazon Rio Project consists in the conservation of four private areas - the Amazon Rio I, II, III and IV Reserves in the Manicoré Municipality in the state of Amazonas, Brazil. The project activity is based on the cessation of the planned logging that had been operational since 1999, added to the implementation of a Management Plan focused on emission reductions, biodiversity conservation and sustainable social development in the region, including the promotion of eco-tourism and scientific research. The project seeks the conservation, management and monitoring of the Amazon Rio Reserves through the protection of the area and promotion of sustainable practices in the buffer zone, in which 15 communities will directly benefit from the project. It aims to protect an area of approximately 20,387 hectares of primary forest by avoiding planned deforestation (APD).


Project 1229
Fronteira and Novicel Ceramics are two industries that produce ceramic units, such as bricks and tiles, destined mainly for the market in Manaus, State of Amazonas, Brazil. Before the project activity, the fuel utilized to produce the ceramic units was non-renewable biomass, i.e. native wood without forest management plan obtained from the Amazon rainforest, which led to the deforestation of this biome. The fuel switch project will reduce the greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, through the switch from non-renewable native wood to wood residues obtained from the Industrial cluster of Manaus, as well as other regional renewable biomasses, such as açaí.


Project 1294
The project activity is the installation of four new small hydro power plants (Barra da Paciência, Corrente Grande, Ninho da Águia and Várzea Alegre) at river points where no renewable power plant was operated prior to the implementation of the project activity (greenfield small hydro power plants).In the absence of project activity, power energy supplied by SHPs would have been generated by the operation of the Brazilian National Interconnected System, to which the project activity plant is connected, and by the addition of new generating plants.


Project 130
The project activity is the grouping project of Arrozal, GGP, and Sul América Ceramics, which are three small and prototypical ceramic industries that produce structural ceramic devices like bricks destined for the regional market of the state of Rio de Janeiro. The project consists on utilizing renewable biomass to feed the kiln rather than using a nonrenewable fuel such as heavy oil, which was a pioneer practice in the region. As renewable biomasses, Arrozal ceramic utilizes afforestation wood, such as eucalyptus biomass material obtained from regulated forest areas, and nonfossil fraction of industrial waste, such as pallets and wooden packages. GGP ceramic utilizes afforestation wood and afforestation wood residues (such as wood chips and sawdust), and Sul América ceramic utilizes afforestation wood residues (such as sawdust) and industries residues wood.


Project 131
The purpose of this project activity is to use renewable biomass (mainly sawdust) available in the region for effective generation of thermal energy for captive consumption. The project activity will indirectly help reduce Brazilian deforestation rates, Brazil's main source of greenhouse gas emissions. The project activity consists of a fuel-switch at Sol Nascente ceramic, which produces structural ceramic devices like bricks for the local market of Panorama and its surroundings in the state of São Paulo. Each brick weighs 2.465 kg. In the baseline scenario, the ceramic company used wood from areas without sustainable forest management, which was a pioneering practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass, once it does not originate from areas with reforestation activities.


Project 1317
The Reforestation Grouped Project (GP) at Pratigi Environmental Protection Area (EPA) is inserted in the Carbon Neutral Program Pratigi and is located in one of the areas of the Development and Integrated Growth Program with Sustainability (PDCIS) of the EPAs Mosaic of Southern Bahia, which are State Protected Areas for Sustainable Use. The Grouped Project is located at Pratigi EPA that has the important role of linking biodiversity conservation in the region through the sustainable use of natural resources. The PDCIS is located in the Central Corridor of the Atlantic Forest (CCMA) that is considered a biodiversity hotspot. Located along Brazil’s Atlantic coast, the Atlantic Forest encompasses Latin America’s largest population centers, including São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, and generates 80 percent of Brazil’s Gross Domestic Product.


Project 1329
The Project REDD+ Maísa is a result of the partnership between Biofilica Environmental Investments, Sipasa-Seringa and Maísa-Moju Agroindustrial aiming to promote forest conservation and emissions reductions from unplanned deforestation by attributing value to “standing forest” by integrating its multiple use in a sustainable fashion: the sustainable forest management with low impact logging techniques, small scale agriculture, collecting non-wood forest products and trade of environmental services credits.


Project 1382
The Envira Amazonia Project is a VCS and CCBS designed REDD+ project in the State of Acre, Brazil which aims to protect up to 200,000 hectares of tropical rainforest. Furthermore, the Envira Amazonia Project will simultaneously preserve rich biodiversity and a wide range of ecosystem services, provide direct benefits to local communities, and mitigate the release of ~12.6 million metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions over the first 10 years of the Project.


Project 143
The project is a grouping project of Bandeira and Capelli Ceramics, which are two small and prototypical red ceramic factories. Capelli Ceramic produces chiefly roof tiles, while Bandeira Ceramic produces bricks. Both are produced mainly for the market of Alagoas and other states of the Brazilian northeast region. The fuel used to cook the ceramic devices in the baseline scenario was native wood from the Atlantic Forest biome and Caatinga biome. The Atlantic Forest biome is considered one of the global hotspots due to its enormous biodiversity of fauna and flora and the great threat to its integrity. This biome now only covers a region of approximately 95,000 km², when it originally encompassed an area of around 1.3 million km². The forest is the second major forest of South America and is located on the Brazilian coast.


Project 1450
The primary objective of the Piratini Project is to help meet Brazil’s rising demand for energy due to economic growth and to improve the supply of electricity, while contributing to the environmental, social and economic sustainability by increasing renewable energy’s share of the total Brazilian (and the Latin America and the Caribbean region’s) electricity consumption The project consists in the generation of electricity with a thermoelectric power plant using wood residues from wood processing companies situated mostly in the region of the city of Piratini, in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The power plant, at full capacity, consumes around 100,000 tons of wood residues per year. The electricity is generated with a high-pressure boiler and a multiple stage condensing steam turbine coupled with a 10 MWel power generator.


Project 146
The purpose of this project activity is to utilize renewable biomass1 (mainly sawdust) available in the region for effective generation of thermal energy for captive consumption. The project activity will indirectly help in reducing the Brazilian deforestation rates, Brazil’s main source of greenhouse gas emissions. The project activity consists of a fuel-switch at Pôr do Sol ceramic, which produces structural ceramic devices like bricks, for the local market of Panorama and its surroundings in the state of São Paulo. In the baseline scenario, the ceramic company utilized wood from areas without sustainable forest management, which was a pioneer practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass, once it does not originate in areas with reforestation activities.


Project 1503
RESEX Rio Preto-Jacundá REDD+ Project is a partnership between Biofílica and the residents of Resex Rio Preto-Jacundá, represented by the Neighborhood Association of The Extractive Reserve Rio Preto-Jacundá and Ribeirinhos do Rio Machado (ASMOREX), having the Center of Studies Rioterra (CES Rioterra) and the Executive Board of the Extractive Reserves of Anari Valley (CDREX) as partners in the planning and implementation of the activities of the Project. Located in the extractive reserve of the same name at the municipalities of Machadinho D’Oeste and Cujubim, northeastern of the State of Rondônia, RESEX Rio Preto-Jacundá has a territory of 95 thousand hectares. It was created in 1996 by State Decree 7,336 and has a history of struggle for rubber tappers rights.The main goal of RESEX Rio Preto-Jacundá REDD+ Project is the promotion of the sustainability of the exctractive community by reducing forest degradation and unplanned and illegal deforestation and consequent emission of greenhouse gases (GHG), achieved through a list of activities funded by the sale of carbon credits.


Project 1550
The Project consists of a collection, transport and treatment system for landfill gas with production of electricity for self-consumption and incorporation to the national grid. Since the landfill gas major constituent is methane, whose GHG potential is 21 to 25 times the CO2, the Project reduces the emission of GHG into the atmosphere by means of methane destruction in high temperature flare and electricity generation, and of displacement of electricity generated from fossil fuel sources.


Project 1553
The project consists of renewable electricity and steam generation from sugarcane bagasse associated to a greenfield ethanol distillery, located in Santa Vitória municipality, state of Minas Gerais, Southern region of Brazil. The project is based in a new business model in which steam and electricity is generated efficiently by ERB MG Energias S.A. and sold to Santa Vitória Açúcar e Alcool Ltda., the ethanol power plant.


Project 1571
Manoa REDD+ Project is a partnership between Biofílica and Grupo Triângulo, located at Manoa Farm, city of Cujubim, state of Rondônia, in an area of 74,038.7 hectares. The farm’s 73,000 hectares of forest demonstrates the pioneering in sustainable forest management, and are one of the few forest areas remaining in private area in the region, constantly threatened by invasions and timber theft. Manoa is of paramount importance in the landscape connectivity, as it is close to conservation units and provides shelter for several species.Benefits to Climate:Avoid the emission of 279,290 tons of CO2e per year or 8,378,697 tons of CO2e along 30 years of project. This corresponds to 22,118 hectares of avoided deforestation. Benefits to the Community:With its own low-impact forest management infrastructure, the benefits to the local community and other stakeholders will be focused on training members of local associations and farm employees on issues such as agroforestry systems, low carbon agriculture, sustainable forest management, environmental eduction, and Associativism with a focus on young audiences in the region and small local producers. Another benefit will be the support in the formation of skilled labor to act in the forest and non-timber forest management chain certified, seeking a regional scope for the target public.BENEFITS TO BIODIVERSITYMaintenance of forest coverage, preventing deforestation of approximately 23,000 hectares along 30 years of project.Conservation of 177 of flora and more than 360 fauna identified species. Out of these species, 12 are mammals and 9 are birds in some type of threat, according to IUCN.Maintenance of ecological corridors with Conservation Units of the state of Rondônia, reducing negative impacts of the region degradation.


Project 158
In order to improve its productive processes, the Menegalli Ceramic, which is located in São Miguel do Guamá of the Pará province, has replaced native wood with sawdust (i.e., wood residues from reforestation) from legalized sawmills, using açai palm seeds and rice husk as complementary fuels. In this case, emissions are reduced because native wood is not used in the production process. The use of native wood leads to deforestation and CO2 emissions due to loss of vegetation cover in forest areas. Besides reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the project conserves Amazon's biodiversity and its sustainable development. The project starts on July 1, 2007, and the crediting period starts on January 1, 2008. During a ten-year period, 397,819 tons of CO2 equivalent will be reduced.


Project 164
The Primavera project consists of the installation of a small hydroelectric plant with an installed capacity of 18.2MW, located on the Pimenta Bueno River, Rondônia State, Brazil. The plant has the objective to provide renewable electricity to the municipalities of Pimenta Bueno, Espigão d’Oeste and Cacoal, in Rondônia State and will be connected to the isolated grid in the Amazonian region. This project will increase the supply of electricity to the grid, offsetting thermal generation with a renewable source of energy.


Project 1654
The FORTALEZA ITUXI REDD PROJECT aims at protecting forests located in one of the regions having the highest deforestation rate in the Amazon Biome: the municipality of Lábrea. As the southernmost municipality in the Brazilian state of Amazonas, Lábrea is geographically located nearby the “Arc of Deforestation” and neighbours other highly deforested municipalities. Over the life of the project, the following benefits are expected:- Estimated net GHG emission reductions: 720,470 tCO2e, corresponding to avoidance of deforestation of 1,836.5 hectares over 30-years;- Technical training on sustainable cattle raising and forest management, fire brigades, study for a small non-wood product processing plant, production of Brazil-nuts (already in place) etc.;- Seedling Production Nursery: capacity of 50,000 native-species seedlings per year and donation for neighbors wishing to plant.- Implementation of technical education frameworks;- Complementary monitoring of labor conditions in Project Area;- Implementation of halth insurance plan for workers;- Monitoring the attendance of young in schools;- Commercial activity in “Castanhal Fortaleza” company (job generation beyond timber management).


Project 1663
The Fazenda Sâo Paulo Agroforestry is an afforestation project that aimed to plant more than 286 ha of degraded grassland  with the species Eucalyptus uro-grandis (hybrid of E. urophylla and E. grandis species). The project Area is located in  the Municipality of Campo Grande in the center part of the state of Mato Grosso do Sul (Brazil). The Project is based on  changing the use of land from extensive cattle ranching (of low productivity and which use involved burning of the grass  to encourage the regrowth of degraded grassland) to sustainable forest growth systems. The Project also promote the remnant natural savanna restoration of the Project Zone. The set of areas planted with Eucalyptus spp. and the areas of regenerated  savannah is a typical mosaic-shaped landscape that guarantees the protection of the soil and the recovery of ecosystem  typical of the “Cerrado” biome, the world's most biodiverse tropical moist savannah.


Project 1686
The primary objective of the Agrocortex REDD Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 186,369.66 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within a private property named “Fazenda Seringal Novo Macapá”, which is situated in the municipalities of Manoel Urbano, Pauini and Boca do Acre, in the States of Acre and Amazonas, South-western Amazon. In addition to contributing to the long-term conservation of the region, the Agrocortex REDD Project also has the function of establishing a barrier against the advancement of deforestation, making an important contribution to the conservation of South-western Amazon biodiversity and also to climate regulation in Brazil and South America. This project is open for public comment from 12 May - 11 June 2017. No comments were received.


Project 1700
The Incomex Hydroelectric Project (hereafter, the Project) developed by Incomex – Indústria, Comércio e Exportação Ltda. together with Cassol, as proponents and operators of the project, consists of a bundle of three small run-of-river hydroelectric projects1: Rio Branco, located at Alta Floresta D’Oeste in Rondônia state with 6.9MW installed capacity; Monte Belo, located at Alta Floresta d’Oeste in Saldanha river in Rondônia state with 4.8 MW installed capacity and; CABIXI II, located at Comodoro, in Lambari river in Mato Grosso state with 2.8 MW installed capacity.


Project 1737
The primary objective of Pampeana and Terra Santa Small Hydropower Plants Project Activity (Pampeana and Terra Santa SHPPs Project) is to help meet Brazil’s rising demand for energy due to economic growth and to improve the supply of electricity, while contributing to the environmental, social and economic sustainability by increasing renewable energy’s share of the total Brazilian (and the Latin America and the Caribbean region’s) electricity consumption. The Latin America and the Caribbean region countries have expressed their commitment towards achieving a target of 10% renewable energy of the total energy use in the region. Through an initiative of the Ministers of the Environment in 2002 (UNEP-LAC, 2002), a preliminary meeting of the World Summit for Sustainable Development (WSSD) was held in Johannesburg in 2002. In the WSSD final Plan of Implementation no specific targets or timeframes were stated, however, their importance was recognized for achieving sustainability in accordance with the Millennium Development Goals.


Project 18
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related GHGs by improving AWMS practices. The project activities mitigate and recover AWMS GHG emissions in an economically sustainable manner, and result in other environmental benefits, such as improved water quality and reduced odour.


Project 180
Santa Edwiges I Small Hydro Power Plant consists of a run-of-river small-hydro power plant (10.1 MW), that has a small reservoir (2.52 km²) with minor environmental impact. The Santa Edwiges I Small Hydro Power Plant Project improves the supply of electricity with clean, renewable hydroelectric power while contributing to the regional/local economic development.


Project 1804
The project activity consists in promoting the fuel switching in the operation of Nexa, a metallurgical company, which is primarily geared toward the zinc production located at the municipality of Três Marias, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The fuel switching was carried out by ComBio Energia S.A., a company that has as main activity the production and distribution of steam, hot water and air conditioning. The implementation of this project activity has the objective of drastically reduce the use of BPF oil and substitutes it by renewable biomasses to generate steam that sustain the production, with the intention of minimizing environmental impacts including the reduction of GHG emissions. In the absence of the project, the average amount of BPF oil that would be utilized would be around 23,024 tonnes/year.


Project 1811
The Jari Pará REDD+ Project is a partnership between Biofílica Investimentos Ambientais S.A. and Jari Celulose, belonging to the Jari Group, with the purpose of promoting forest conservation and reducing potential greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) based on a model of local economic development that values the “standing forest” through the integration of Sustainable Forest Management activities and the commercialization of environmental services. The Project is located in the municipality of Almeirim, in the State of Pará, and borders the State of Amapá to the North. There is a very important role in this region as it serves as a home for many rural families and as an ecological corridor, with several Conservation Units (CUs) in its vicinity. It has a very rich biodiversity, its vegetation includes ten forest and non-forest formations and species of extreme ecological and social importance.


Project 1812
VTRM Renewable Energy is a grouped project that consists on the implantation and operation of wind power plants (WPPs) in Brazil. All WPPs will supply clean electricity to the Brazilian National Interconnected System (SIN).VE WPP Grouped project will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, avoiding electricity generation through fossil fuels sources. Clean and renewable electricity supply will bring an important contribution to environmental sustainability, reducing the GHG emissions that would occur in the absence of this project.The baseline scenario is the same scenario existing before the start of implementation of the project activity, which is: “the electricity delivered to the grid by the project activity would have otherwise been generated by the operation of grid-connected power plants and by the addition of new generation sources, as reflected in the combined margin calculations according to “Tool to calculate the emission factor for an electric system””.The initial project activity instance is a complex called Ventos do Araripe III Complex, composed by fourteen wind power plants. These WPPs, their installed capacity, main technology employed (numbers and model of wind power turbines (WPTs)), location, and operation starting date are presented in table.The estimated annual average GHG emission reductions is 637,939 tCO2 and total GHG emission reductions for the crediting period is 6,379,394 tCO2.The total GHG emission reductions generated in this monitoring period is 876,160 tCO2e.


Project 1850
Pesqueiro Energia S.A is a special purpose company (SPC) which includes a run-of-river small hydro power plant and a very small reservoir (0.33km²) with minor environmental impact. The entrepreneurship is a joint venture owned by three agricultural cooperatives. These agricultural cooperatives control three smaller cooperatives created specifically to commercialize the electricity. These three controlled cooperatives specialize in agricultural electrification have 2,500km in transmission lines and commercialize more than 100,000MWh per year


Project 1884
The primary objective of Bikes for the Planet – Brazil Program is to promote alternative mobility by constructing and/or expanding the existing bicycle lanes, parking areas and sharing programs.


Project 19
Same as Project 18


Project 1902
The project activity named “Salvador da Bahia Landfill Gas Management” encompasses the construction and operation of a landfill gas (LFG) collection and destruction infrastructure at the Aterro Metropolitano do Centro landfill (AMC landfill). The AMC landfill is located in the Municipality of Lauro de Freitas, Bahia State, in the Northeast region of Brazil. This landfill is the disposal site for all municipal solid waste (MSW) generated and collected at the city of Salvador (capital of Bahia State). The AMC landfill was built in 1999 and has employed state-of-the-art waste landfilling technics and management. In the absence of the CDM project activity, which was implemented and started operations in the end of year 2003, no appropriated management of LFG emissions at the AMC landfill would occur.


Project 1903
VTRM Renewable Energy 2 is a grouped project that consists on the implantation and operation of renewable energy plants in Brazil. The initial instance is a wind power complex called Ventos do Piauí Complex composed of 7 wind power plants. It will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, avoiding electricity generation through fossil fuels sources.The estimated annual average GHG emission reductions is 439,950 tCO2 and total GHG emission reductions for the crediting period is 4,399,508 tCO2.The total GHG emission reductions generated in this monitoring period is 482,465 tCO2e.


Project 197
Kamiranga Ceramic is a small company that produces structural ceramic units (bricks), mainly for the market in Belém and for the northeast region of the state of Pará. In the past few years the fuel used to fire the ceramic units was native wood that was obtained through deforestation of the Amazon forest, which led to the deforestation of this biome. The Amazonian Biome has a diversity of fauna and flora that represents 60% of all Brazilian territory. Nowadays, the uncontrolled deforestation is clearing the forest. Without necessary care, unique species and entire regions of fauna are at risk to completely disappear.


Project 198
The project of J L Silva Ceramic is a red ceramic industry located in Lajedo, in the state of Pernambuco, in the northeast region of Brazil. The ceramic industry produces ceramic bricks, flagstones, and tile roofs mainly for the regional market of Pernambuco. In the baseline scenario, the fuel used to fire the ceramic units was native wood that was obtained through deforestation of the Caatinga biome, which is the pioneering practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass, as it is obtained from areas without reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.


Project 199
The project activity promotes a fuel switch at Santorini Ceramic, which is situated in the state of Minas Gerais in the municipality of Ituiutaba. The region is commonly known as Triangulo Mineiro. The project consists of utilizing sawdust and wood chips to supply the kiln rather than using a non-renewable fuel such as native wood from areas without sustainable forest management, which was the pioneering practice in the region. Santorini is a small and prototypical ceramic industry that produces structural ceramic units such as roof tiles. They are sold in the local market of Ituiutaba and its surroundings in the state of Minas Gerais, such as the cities in the states of Mato Grosso, Distrito Federal and Goiás. The roof tiles that are produced in Santorini Ceramic obey the ABNT1 norms and adopt the quality standards of INMETRO.


Project 20
Same as project 18


Project 200
Velotex is located in the Itabaiana municipality in the state of Sergipe, which is located in the Brazilian northeast region. The population of Itabaiana is under 63,975 habitants and covers a 1,588km2 area. Itabaiana's main economic activity is the ceramic factory, which is responsible for a great part of job creation and exports in the region. Velotex uses 3 kilns to produce monthly 4,470 tons of ceramic units. It used to use native wood from the sustainable forest management area in its factory. Velotex produces structural ceramic units that include different types of blocks. The Velotex main customers are located in the states of Sergipe, Alagoas and Bahia.


Project 201
Barbosa Ceramic is a small company that produces structural ceramic units (bricks), mainly for the market in Belém and the northeast region of the state of Pará. In the past few years the fuel that was used to fire the ceramic units was native wood obtained from deforestation of the Amazon forest, which led to the deforestation of the biome. The Amazonian Biome has a diversity of fauna and flora, which represents 60% of all Brazilian territory. Now, the uncontrolled deforestation is breaking up the firm land forest. Without necessary care, entire regions of fauna and old centers of species are at risk to completely disappear.


Project 202
Bom Jesus Ceramic is a red ceramic company that is located in the Paudalho municipality, in the state of Pernambuco, the northeast region of Brazil. The ceramic industry produces bricks and flagstones mainly for the regional market in Pernambuco. Native wood from the Caatinga biome was used to fire the ceramic devices, which was the pioneering practice in the region. The wood was not from areas with reforestation or sustainable management activities, and thus this type of wood was considered a non-renewable biomass. This fuel switching project will use renewable biomasses instead of native wood to generate thermal energy and will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions.


Project 2079
The FNL Project is a typical Afforestation Project and aimed to plant 342 ha of degraded grassland with the species Eucalyptus uro-grandis (hybrid of E. urophylla and E. grandis species). This 2 species, originating from Australia, have adapted very well to the soil and climate typical of the region of Mato Grosso do Sul, thanks mainly to the high rainfall and the high photoperiod, which ensure a high yield of this timber species. The Project also aimed to recover the remnant natural savanna restauration of the Project Zone. The set of areas planted with Eucalyptus spp. and the areas of regenerated savannah is a typical mosaic-shaped landscape that guarantees the protection of the soil and the recovery of biodiversity typical of the Project Zone.PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD:This project was open for public comment from 06 January 2020 – 05 February 2020.


Project 21
Same as project 18


Project 22
Same as project 18


Project 2252
The Rio Anapu-Pacaja REDD Carbon Credit Project in Portel, Para is protecting 165,707 hectares in a highly critical region of the Brazilian Amazon. The high levels of land grabbing, land conflict and instability in the region has allowed the project to strongly focus on bringing stability to all the areas that surround the project area by paying for and helping the local residents known as Riverine people to gain land tenure documents and eventually full freehold title deeds. The project also provided cook stoves to 50 families with the goal to help further families as carbon credit sales take place.


Project 23
Same as project 18


Project 2306
Units from this CDM project were converted into VCUs in compliance with VCS requirements. This project is not registered with VCS. More information on the project can be found at CDM Project ID 0373: https://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/DNV-CUK1145141778.29


Project 2316
Units from this CDM project were converted into VCUs in compliance with VCS requirements. This project is not registered with VCS. More information on the project can be found at CDM Project ID 3222: https://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/DNV-CUK1260529957.22/CP/QH3J74TB9RS6XPWJTWDDNM0GF0POOK/view


Project 24
Same as project 18


Project 247
The purpose of the project activity is switching the majority of fuel oil used to animal tallow in the boilers, at Companhia de Fiação e Tecidos Santo Antônio located in the city of Pirapora, Minas Gerais, Brazil. This plant produces cotton yarn, in the baseline scenario, fuel oil would otherwise continue to be used during the crediting period. The company began its activities in September 1997, producing cotton yarns to supply Cedro Cachoeria textile factory. Currently its production goes directly to DENINS, witch produces approximately 5 million liners meters each month of cotton yarns. The process initiates with the opening of the cotton packs, passing trough the mill, dyeing of the yarn, weaving, finishing of the fabric, revision and expedition.


Project 2508
The UNITOR REDD+ PROJECT is located in Lábrea, Amazonas State, Brazil, which is the municipality with the fourth highest aggregate deforestation rate in Brazil between 2008 and 2020, according to PRODES data1. Municipal deforestation rates have risen year on year, from 3.8% in 2017 to 5.3% in 2020, making it a priority area for forest conservation worldwide. A consortium of 15 neighbouring properties comprises the Unitor REDD+ Project, summing to 99,035.20 ha of forest area, who have come together to develop forest carbon activities under the guidance, example and inspiration of the nearby Fortaleza Ituxi REDD Project.


Project 2539
The Evergreen REDD+ Project is located in Apuí Municipality, Amazonas, currently the municipality with the 10th highest deforestation rate in Brazil making it a priority area for forest conservation worldwide. The present project continues to build on the success of the Fortaleza Ituxi REDD+ Project and the Unitor REDD+ Project, which have the same project developer and owner, and have provided an important proof of concept for the region. Evergreen’s Project Area sums to 130,554.81 hectares of preserved forest area. Given the deforestation pressures and financial difficulties regarding sustainable economic activities in the Project Area, sale of the farm to private investors is considered the most plausible baseline scenario. In recent years, some of the project landowners have been approached to sell their properties. In this context, the conversion of a portion of the project area to pastureland by the project owners, to alleviate the financial pressure, followed by the regional business-as-usual scenario (BAU) is the most plausible future scenario, involving deforestation beyond Brazilian Forest Code limits and sale of illegal timber, followed by implementation of unsustainable cattle ranching operations. Provided that the present REDD+ project is approved, the landowner intends to improve the mechanisms of surveillance inside the Project Area, abandon planned deforestation activities, as well as implement activities that will result in climate, community, and biodiversity benefits.


Project 2600
The owner of the CERs, ALLCOT, is requesting a conversion of 1,059,508 CERs CERs to VCUs. More information on the project can be found at CDM Project ID 10261: https://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/RINA1454324700.11/view


Project 286
The project activity is a grid-connected electricity generation from a renewable source. It is a capacity addition of installed power of 49.5MW–a 4th generation set (Kaplan turbine and GE generator)–to the existing 131MW hydro power plant UHE Mascarenhas, located on the Rio Doce river, in the state of Espírito Santo, Brazil. There is no change in the level of the reservoir and the project activity is expected to generate 200,604MWh/year and an average of emissions reduction of 50,466tCO2e/year, according to the registered CDM PDD. Approved CDM methodology ACM0002 Version06 was applied in order to design the project activity. The 4th generation set has already been installed and is operating since 2006, having been released by the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency (ANEEL) for testing operation as of 23Sep.2006 and for commercial operation as of 3rd Oct. 2006, as per the following documents: http://www.aneel.gov.br/cedoc/dsp20062192.pdf http://www.aneel.gov.br/cedoc/dsp20062281.pdf


Project 3010
Macaúbas Landfill Gas Project is a landfill gas collection, use and flare project in Brazil. The project’s core idea is to avoid emissions of methane gas to the atmosphere from the landfill called “Central de Tratamento de Resíduos Macaúbas” (hereinafter referred to as CTR Macaúbas) located in the municipality of Sabará in the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The project activity comprises the installation of a new active LFG extraction, flaring and electricity generation systems.


Project 304
The FSCECP consists of a brazilian hydroeletric complex, composed by Fundao and Santa Clara Hydroeletric power plants, with small reservoir both located in Jordão River, state of Paraná - Brazil. The Fundão Hydroeletric power plant is composed of one small scale and other large scale power plants. The Santa Clara Hydroeletric power plant is composed of one small scale and other large scale power plants. The FSCECP is connected to the interconnected S-SE-CO subsystem through three 138 KV transmission lines.


Project 32
Luara Ceramic is a small and prototypical red ceramic, located in the southeast of Brazil, which produces primarily blocks and other structural ceramic devices, for the market in Campo Grande of the Mato Grosso do Sul state. The industry possesses one Round kiln and one Paulista kiln to produce approximately 550,000 ceramic devices per month. In order to supply the heat necessary to cook its products, it maintains a temperature of 900ºC for 24 hours in both kilns. The fuel that was used was native wood extracted from the nearby Cerrado forest. The practice has led to the deforestation of this very crucial biome that is located in the southern region of Mato Grosso do Sul. This area is geographically limited to the southeast by São Paulo and the remaining Cerrado forest in the same region of the ceramic that is located in the surrounding area of Panorama.


Project 323
The purpose of this project activity is to utilize renewable biomass1 (like wood chips /Sawdust and sugar cane bagasse) available in the region for effective generation of thermal energy for captive consumption. The project activity will indirectly help in reducing the Brazilian deforestation rates, Brazil’s main source of greenhouse gas emissions. The project activity consists of a fuel-switch at Panorama ceramic, which produces bricks with eight holes, for the local market of Panorama and its surroundings in the state of São Paulo. Each brick weighs 1.995 Kg.


Project 329
The project activity is the grouping project of Nova Dutra, São Silvestre and Vila Nova Ceramics, which are three small and prototypical ceramic industries that produce structural ceramic devices like bricks destined for the regional market of the state of Rio de Janeiro. The activity of this grouping consists of utilizing wood from afforestation and woody residues such as pallets, other industries residues wood and elephant grass, which are renewable biomasses, to feed the kilns rather than using a non-renewable fuel like heavy oil. Such a switch was a pioneering practice in the region. Usually companies in the ceramic sector do not take into consideration the effects that they have on the environment, but this is not the case with these three ceramics. These ceramics worked hard to create a good working system and are perfectly within the boundaries of the regulations imposed by the Brazilian Government.


Project 33
The project is implemented at Kitambar Ceramic, which is a small and prototypical ceramic industry that produces structural ceramic devices like roof tiles for the regional market. This project consists of utilizing renewable biomasses to feed the kilns rather than using native wood from areas without sustainable forest management, which is a pioneering practice in the region. Once it does not originate from areas with reforestation activities, this type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass. Kitambar Ceramic mainly uses wood from Algaroba and cashew tree residues as renewable biomasses. The coconut husk is also utilized. However, the technological difficulty of burning these materials limits their use.


Project 332
This project comprises of two different plants from Dori Alimentos. The head office is located in Marilia, Sao Paulo, and the subsidiary plant in Rolandia, Parana. Both produce candies. The project activity involves switching the fuel from shale oil to a renewable biomass that comes from peanut shells and wood chips, which is how GHG emissions are reduced. Before the replacement of shale oil, Dori Alimentos used to consume about 3,544 tonnes of shale oil in Marilia and 4,077 tonnes in Rolandia to generate about 47,843 and 55,041 tonnes/year of steam in its two boilers. The project activities started in Dori's head office in March 2005 and Dori's subsidiary company in December 2004. They are still using shale oil, but less of it. In both plants Dori Alimentos is using their boilers to produce 102,884 tonnes of steam and consume 2,354 tonnes of renewable biomass per month.


Project 34
Cavalcante Ceramic, the project proponent, is a red ceramic factory that produces bricks for the surrounding market of São Miguel do Guamá, Pará State. Before implementing the project, the fuel employed to fire the ceramic devices was native wood from the Amazonian biome. The project activity consists of using sawdust to feed the kilns rather than using native wood from the Amazonian biome, which was a pioneering practice in the region. With the absence of the project, this biomass would be anaerobically decaying in open dumps. Açaí pits and rice husk also can be used and are considered complementary sources of fuel, which will be used in the harvest period of the year. Açaí, a fruit, is typically consumed in the state of Pará. The rice husk is a renewable biomass that has a shorter renewal cycle. Any other biomass can be used in the process once its renewability can be verified.


Project 341
Located in the western region of the São Paulo state, the city of Paulicéia has 5,302 inhabitants, in accordance to IBGE, and occupies an area of approximately 373 km2. This grouped project comprises of two enterprises, Dois Companheiros and União, small and prototypical red ceramic companies, located in this municipality previously described, with the purpose of using renewable biomasses, such as sawdust, elephant grass, sugar cane bagasse and peanut shell, rather than consuming wood without forest management for the thermal energy generation process of these ceramics. For years, wood without forest management had been used for both ceramics to feed their kilns and to fire bricks, structural ceramic units. The temperature of 900ºC was maintained for approximately 36 hours to support their production processes.


Project 354
Assunção Ceramic is located in the Aquiraz municipality of the Ceará state in the northeast region of Brazil. The population has more than 60,500 inhabitants, where 50% of them are economically active. In the area of 482.8 km², Acquiraz's economy is based on commercial stores, factories and mainly tourism. Assunção Ceramic produces structural ceramic units particularly ceramic bricks, to supply mainly the local market of Aquiraz and Fortaleza, which is Ceara's capital and the biggest municipality in the region. Before the project was implemented, Assunção Ceramic used to consume an average of 3,680 m3 of non-sustainable wood per month to feed the kilns and maintained a temperature of 900ºC to produce around 4,000 of ceramic units per month, which is 12,800 tons of ceramic units per month.


Project 385
The Saldanha Small Hydroelectric Project consists of a small run-of-river hydroelectric project, located at the Saldanha River in the municipality of Alta Floresta d’Oeste, Rondônia state and has an installed capacity of 5.0 MW, consisting of 2 turbines of 2.5MW capacity each. Although the installed capacity of the plant is 5.0 MW, the authorization provided by the Electricity Agency (ANEEL) is for the operation of 4.8MW.


Project 4
Same as Project 18


Project 451
The project activity consists of the construction of a new small hydro power plant with 29.3 MW total installed capacity and a reservoir of 2.87 km². The plant is being installed in the Midwest region of Brazil, in Rio do Sangue (river). Small hydro in Brazil must have installed capacity between 1 MW and 30 MW and reservoir area less than 3 km², or, if the area is between 3 km² and 13 km², it should have a minimum environmental impact. Garganta da Jararaca plant complies with the Brazilian legal criteria that define small hydropower plants. The turbine system consists of two units of 15.10 MW each, and two generators of 14.65 MW.


Project 455
The project activity is the project of Maracá Ceramic, which is a red ceramic industry localized in Ituiutaba municipality, in the state of Minas Gerais, region known as Triangulo Mineiro, southeastern of Brazil. The ceramic industry produces bricks and roof tiles, destined mainly for the regional market in Minas Gerais, but also for Mato Grosso and Goiás, which are boundary states. The fuel utilized in the baseline scenario to fire the ceramic units was native wood from the Cerrado biome, which is a pioneer practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non- renewable biomass, once it is not originated in areas with reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.


Project 456
Barro Forte Ceramic is a red ceramic industry located in Tacaimbó in the state of Pernambuco, in the northeast region of Brazil. The ceramic industry produces bricks, mainly for the regional market in Pernambuco, but also for Alagoas, which is a boundary state. The fuel utilized in the baseline scenario to cook the ceramic devices was native wood from the Caatinga biome, which is a pioneering practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass, once it does not originate from areas with reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.


Project 513
Salto Pilão project activity consists of the construction of a hydropower plant with a reservoir of 0.15 km2 and an installed capacity of 191,8 MW. The plant is located between the cities of Lontras, Ibirama and Apiúna, state of Santa Catarina, Southern region of Brazil.According to the project license, the geographic coordinates of the project activity are 27º06’and 27º08’S and 49º28’and 49º31’W.


Project 52
The purpose of this project activity is to utilize renewable biomass available in the region for thermal energy generation. The project activity will indirectly help reduce Brazilian deforestation rates, Brazil's main source of greenhouse gas emissions. The project activity consists of a fuel-switch at Nascente Ceramic, which produces structural ceramic devices like bricks, for the local market of Panorama and its surroundings in the state of São Paulo. The firewood used in the ceramic was supplied by the state of Mato Grosso do Sul which is located in the mid-eastern region of Brazil. The project activity consists of using sawdust and sugar cane bagasse to feed the kilns of the ceramic rather than wood from areas with non-sustainable forest management, which does not at all enrich biodiversity. If the ceramic company has harvest issues with these renewable biomasses or is lacking them, the company can also use elephant grass and peanut shells.


Project 53
The global warming issue has garnered special attention in the last few years. In Brazil, in contrast to industrialized countries, deforestation activities does more to cause global warming than the burning of fossil fuels. The project activity consists of the fuel switch in Milenium Ceramic that produces structural ceramic devices like roof tiles. The plant maintains a temperature of 900°C and consumes about 30,000 m³ of native wood from Cerrado per year to feed the kilns, producing around 1,000,000 ceramic devices per month. This firewood used in the ceramic was supplied by the state of Tocantins, which is located in the north region of Brazil.


Project 54
The project activity involves Cenol and Telha Forte Ceramics, which are two small and prototypical ceramic industries that produce structural ceramic devices such as bricks. These devices are destined for the local market in São Miguel do Guamá, in the state of Pará. The ceramic pieces produced in Cenol and Telha Forte ceramics obey the ABNT1 norms. The fuel that is employed in the baseline scenario to cook the ceramic devices was native wood from the Amazonian biome. The Amazonian Biome has a diversity of fauna and flora in a region of approximately 7 million km². Nowadays, the uncontrolled deforestation is breaking up the firm land forest. Without necessary care, entire regions of fauna and old centers of species have the risk to disappear forever.


Project 55
Lucevans Ceramic is a small ceramic industry that produces ceramic devices, bricks, for the local market in Panorama city, in the state of São Paulo. The ceramic is involved in an innovative activity, the switching fuel of its burning process. The project activity consists of utilizing sugar cane bagasse, sawdust and peanut shells to feed the ceramic’s kilns, replacing the use of wood from areas with non sustainable forest management, which does not have any kind of contribution to the level of biodiversity enrichment. The ceramic company can use those renewable biomasses. This project pointed out the possibility to switch non-renewable biomass for renewable biomasses, which was unattractive due to high investments on the adaptation of machineries to work with the new biomasses and other barriers. The ceramic owner considered the income from the commercialization of the carbon credits to become the project activity viable.


Project 558
The project of Ituiutaba Ceramic is a red ceramic company located in the Minas Gerais state, which is a region known as Triangulo Mineiro in the southeastern region of Brazil. The ceramic company produces bricks and roof tiles mainly for the regional market in Minas Gerais, but also for Mato Grosso and Goiás, which are boundary states. The fuel that was used in the baseline scenario to fire the ceramic units was native wood from the Cerrado biome, which is a pioneering practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass, once it does not originate from areas with reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.


Project 586
GE Teobaldo Ceramic is a red ceramic company that is located in the Paudalho municipality, in the state of Pernambuco, the northeast region of Brazil. The ceramic industry produces bricks and flagstones mainly for the regional market in Pernambuco. Native wood from the Caatinga biome was used to fire the ceramic devices, which was the pioneering practice in the region. The wood was not from areas with reforestation or sustainable management activities, and thus this type of wood was considered a non-renewable biomass. This fuel switching project will use renewable biomasses instead of native wood to generate thermal energy and will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions.


Project 60
The global warming issue has received an absolutely special treatment in the last years. In Brazil, differently from the industrialized countries, the contribution to global warming is produced less by the burning of fossil fuels and more by deforestation. Consequently, innovative actions like the one in the present project activity are very important, since they contribute to minimize Brazilian deforestation rates. The project activity consists of the fuel switch at Irmãos Fredi Ceramic which produces structural ceramic devices like bricks, for the local market of Presidente Epitácio and its surroundings in São Paulo State. The plant used to consume about 24,000 tonnes of native wood (or 3,500 m³ of wood per month) from Cerrado Biome1 per year to feed the kilns and reach a temperature of 900oC to produce around 750,000 roof tiles and 200,000 ceramic blocks per month2.


Project 602
The project activity is the project of Maguary Ceramic, which is a redceramic industry localized in Nazaré da Mata municipality, in the state of Pernambuco, northeast of Brazil.The ceramic industry produces ceramic bricks destined mainly for the regional market in Pernambuco. The fuel utilized in the baseline scenario to fire the ceramic units was native wood obtained through deforestation of the Caatinga biome, which is the pioneer practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non renewable biomass, as it is obtained from areas without reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.This project introduced the possibility of switching non-renewable biomass for renewable biomasses in the generation thermal energy. Previously, this switch was unattractive due to high investment costs in upgrading machinery for working with biomasses, in addition to other barriers. This project became financially possible after the ceramic owner incorporated the potential income from the
commercialization of the carbon credits.


Project 61
Paulicéia is located in the western region of the São Paulo state, which is to the southeast of Mato Grosso do Sul. The city has 5,302 inhabitants, in accordance to IBGE, and occupies an area of approximately 373 km2. The project proponent is Tapajós Ceramic, a small and prototypical red ceramic, located in this municipality previously described. The proponent mainly produces blocks, structural ceramic devices, for the market in the west region of São Paulo. Due to the necessary heat to fire its devices, for almost 20 years the ceramic company has used native wood from the Cerrado forest. The company used about 13,200 m³ of wood per year to supply the kilns and maintained a temperature of 950ºC for 30 hours to produce about 800,000 ceramic blocks per month. This has led to the deforestation of the biome, located in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, an area geographically limited to the southeast by São Paulo.


Project 63
The project activity is the grouping project of Argibem, São Sebastião and Vulcão Ceramics, which are three small and prototypical ceramic industries that produce structural ceramic devices like bricks. Argibem ceramic produces for the marketing of the states of Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. São Sebastião ceramic attends the market of Médio Paraíba, Vale do Aço. The last ceramic is Vulcão, which is focused on the market of Baixada Fluminense. The activity of this grouping consists on utilizing wood from afforestation and wood residues, which are renewable biomasses, to feed the kilns rather than using a non-renewable fuel like heavy oil. Such a switch was a pioneering practice in the region.


Project 64
The accelerating destruction of forests around the world is being recognized as one of the main causes of climate change. Carbon emissions from deforestation far outstrip damage caused by planes and automobiles and factories. One of the main reasons for deforestation is the demand for fuel. Ceramic companies are well known for their great demand of fuel to maintain their burning processes. Therefore, the project activity in Gomes de Mattos Ceramic will indirectly contribute to minimize this problem in the Caatinga biome by displacing the use of native forests wood without sustainable forest management with thermal energy generation.


Project 65
The global warming issue has garnered special attention in the last few years. In Brazil, in contrast to industrialized countries, deforestation activities do more to cause global warming than the burning of fossil fuels. The project activity consists of the fuel switch in Reunidas Ceramic that produces structural ceramic devices such as bricks. The plant uses about 12,000 m³ of native wood from Cerrado per year to feed the kilns and maintains a temperature of 900°C for 48 hours to produce around 400,000 ceramic devices per month. The firewood used in the ceramic was supplied by the state of Tocantins which is located in the north region of Brazil.


Project 665
The project is located in Mato Grosso (Brazil) and aims at the restoration of grasslands that were formerly deforested for the  purpose of cattle grazing activities. The baseline scenario is the continuation of cattle grazing activities with the decrease  of carbon stocks as it is still observed around project area; the region is a front of agriculture going towards north to Amazonia. The project scenario is, on one hand, the reforestation of 1’971.25 ha of private lands that were deforested before land purchase by ONF in 1998, and on the other hand natural forest management on 7’000 ha (not considered for issuance of carbon credits). The present Project Document was based on the Small Scale A/R Clean Development Mechanism Project Design Document (PDD) form in its latest version.


Project 70
The Project is a wastewater methane avoidance project at a pulp and paper facility in Santa Catarina state, Brazil, owned by pulp and paper manufacturer Celulose Irani S.A. Prior to the project activity, wastewater treatment consisted of primary treatment only in a series of ponds, with superficial aeration only in the first pond. Except for the minimal and inefficient superficial aeration in the first pond, organic material degraded anaerobically in the facility’s lagoon system, producing significant amounts of methane. The project activity consisted of implementation of a new wastewater treatment scheme using aerobic treatment, referred to as secondary or biologic treatment. The new wastewater treatment system uses highly aerated activated sludge, which is decanted and reused. A significant environmental benefit of the project is that the removal of potentially harmful organic material allows for the treated wastewater to be directed to a nearby river.


Project 708
The project activity consists in electricity generation by renewable source (hydro), through the construction of small hydropower plants (SHPs) located in the Júlio de Castilhos and Salto Jacuí municipalities, both in Rio Grande do Sul state – south region of Brazil. The Engenheiro Ernesto Jorge Dreher SHP has an installed power of 17.95 MW and a new reservoir which in its higher water level occupies an area of 0.83 km2. The Engenheiro Henrique Kotzian SHP has an installed power of 13.230 MW and a new reservoir which in its higher water level occupies an area of 0.66 km2. The project activity purpose is to provide electric power to the National Interconnected System - SIN (from Portuguese – Sistema Interconectado Nacional), displacing the thermal generation from fossil fuels presents in the system with the generation of renewable sources of energy.


Project 78
The Project is a co-generation project developed by Nobrecel S/A Celulose e Papeas in Pindamonhangaba city, Brazil. The project activity consists of renewable energy generation using a new wood biomass residue boiler and an 8 MW generation turbine. The project at the same time replaces fuel-oil-fired boilers and reduces the consumption of grid electricity. Additionally, biomass utilization avoids the dumping and decay of the residues.


Project 81
The global warming issue has garnered special attention in the last few years. In Brazil, in contrast to industrialized countries, deforestation does more to cause global warming than the burning of fossil fuels. The project consists of the fuel switch in São Judas Tadeu Ceramic that produces structural ceramic devices such as bricks. The plant maintains a temperature of 900°C for 72 hours and uses about 20,400 m³ of native wood from Cerrado per year to feed the kilns, producing around 932,000 ceramic devices per month. The basis of the project is to use renewable biomasses to feed the kilns rather than wood from areas without sustainable forest management, which was a pioneering practice in the region.


Project 83
The project activity is the grouping project of Guaraí, Itabira and Santa Izabel Ceramics, which are three small and prototypical ceramic industries that produce structural ceramic devices like bricks destined for the regional market. The grouped project activity is located at Itaboraí Municipal District, State of Rio de Janeiro. In accordance to an IBGE1 research realized in 2007, Itaboraí has 215,792 inhabitants occupying an area of 424 Km², and was founded in 1672. The economy of the city is sustained mostly for Ceramic industries, horticulture, subsistence agriculture, and others. The activity of this grouping consists of utilizing wood from afforestation and woody residues (such as wood chips), which are renewable biomasses, to feed the kilns rather than using a non-renewable fuel like heavy oil. Such a switch was a pioneering practice in the region.


Project 832
The CIKEL Brazilian Amazon REDD APD Project aims to avoid emissions from planned deforestation on a property in Paragominas Municipality, Para state, Brazil. The main activity of the CIKEL Brazilian Amazon REDD APD Project is the cancelation of the planned deforestation activities and decision to instead conserve the forest area and continue limited forest management activities in the area under Forest Stewardship Council® Certification (FSC®) with Low Impact Logging (SFMLIL) practices. Also, the company is intensifying and improving its practices to support the sustainable social development, maintaining and improving the biodiversity monitoring at the RCC in the framework of FCS certification and REDD activities. The RCC property includes five forest areas: Rio Capim, Poty, Cauaxi, Sumal and Caculé, totaling 209,130.54 ha. The project area is a subset of the RCC property and covers an area of 27,434.9 ha of native forest. The project will avoid 9,432,299 tCO2 that would have been emitted into the atmosphere over the next ten years.


Project 845
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related Greenhouse Gas (GHG) by improving the Animal Waste Management System practices in the confined animal feed operations in the cities located at the São Paulo state, southwest Brazil.


Project 846
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related Greenhouse Gas (GHG) by improving the Animal Waste Management System practices in the confined animal feed operations in São Gabriel do Oeste located at the Mato Grosso do Sul state, Brazil,


Project 847
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related Greenhouse Gas (GHG) by improving the Animal Waste Management System practices in the confined animal feed operations in Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul states, Brazil.


Project 875
The FSM-REDD Project, proposed by Florestal Santa Maria S/A (FSM), is located in Colniza Municipality, Mato Grosso, Brazil. This region is part of the Brazilian Amazon and known as Deforestation Arch, due to the intense deforestation pressure. As an alternative to combat this, FSM-REDD Project estimates the avoidance of 29,923,331 tCO2 throughout 30 years within Fazenda Florestal Santa Maria – private land owned by FSM, comprising 71,714 ha. of native forest. FSM is committed to local socio-environmental development. Project activities encompass a partnership with a neighboring State Park, promoting local initiatives to create fire brigades. Also, FSM will create together with Colniza City Hall, technical forestry schools targeting education of local youngsters.


Project 878
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related Greenhouse Gas (GHG) by improving the Animal Waste Management System practices in the confined animal feed operations in the cities located at the São Paulo state, southwest Brazil, developed by BRASCARBON.


Project 889
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related Greenhouse Gas (GHG) by improving the Animal Waste Management System practices in the confined animal feed operations in some cities located at Minas Gerais state, southwest Brazil, developed by BRASCARBON.


Project 896
Foz do Chapecó Hydroelectric Project developed by Foz do Chapecó Energia S/A consists of the installation of a hydroelectric plant, located in the verge of Águas de Chapecó municipality, in Santa Catarina State, and Alpestre municipality, in Rio Grande do Sul State. Total installed capacity of the Project will be 855 MW, consisting of four sets of hydroelectric Francis type turbines with nominal capacity 217.14 MW and the electricity generator nominal power is 213.75. The purpose of the Project is to use the hydrological resources of the Uruguay River in order to generate low emissions electricity for the Brazilian Interconnected System (SIN – Sistema Interligado Nacional), thereby displacing electricity that is relatively carbon intensive, and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions


Project 897
The Project will consist of a collection, transport and treatment system for landfill gas with production of electricity for self-consumption and incorporation to the national grid. Since the landfill gas major constituent is methane, whose GHG potential is 21 times the CO2, the Project will reduce the emission of GHG into the atmosphere by means of methane destruction in high temperature flares and of displacement of electricity generated from fossil fuel sources.


Project 943
Rio Negro Ceramic is a red ceramic industry located in Cacau Pirera in the state of Amazonas, in the north region of Brazil. The ceramic industry produces bricks and tiles, mainly for the regional market in Manaus city. The fuel utilized in the baseline scenario to cook the ceramic devices was native wood from the Amazon rainforest, which is a pioneering practice in the region. This type of wood is considered a non-renewable biomass, once it does not originate from areas with reforestation activities or sustainable management activities.


Project 963
The Purus Project is a VCS and CCBS validated REDD+ project in the State of Acre, Brazil which aims to protect up to 34,702 hectares of tropical rainforest. Furthermore, the Purus Project will simultaneously preserve endangered species and a wide range of ecosystem services, provide direct benefits to local communities, and mitigate the release of nearly 900,000 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions over the first 10 years of the Project.


Project 977
REDD Project to stop deforestation within private parcels amounting to 151,105 Ha at the edge of the deforestation frontier in Brazil. The project will generate multiple climates, social, and biodiversity benefits This project achieved validation and verification to the CCB Standards Second Edition, Climate, and Biodiversity Gold Levels. The project completed verification to the CCB Standards on December 19, 2019. PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD: The project held a CCB Standards public comment period for verification, 21 October – 20 November 2019.


Project 981
REDD Project to stop deforestation within private parcels amounting to 135, 105 Ha at the edge of the deforestation frontier in Brazil. The project will generate multiple climate, social, and biodiversity benefits.


Project 2709
The primary objective of the Juruena River REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 45,675.15 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within 18 private properties, which are located in the municipality of Cotriguaçu, in the State of Mato Grosso, Southern Amazon. A Sustainable Forest Management Plan is also carried out in some of the properties. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predict ed 3,800 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,384,740 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30 year project lifetime (12-November-2021 to 11-November-2050).


Project 1260
The project consists of the construction of a small hydroelectric power plant (“PCH”, from the Portuguese Pequena Central Hidrelétrica): Zé Tunin with 8 MW of installed capacity and 0.367 km2 reservoir area. The plant is located in the Pomba River, state of Minas Gerais, Southeastern region of Brazil.


Project 1969
The project reforests 39,150 hectares. The project goal is to reforest with trees the degraded pasture in the Amazon Biome, with the goal to prove out the economic feasibility of reforestation in the Amazon via the help of carbon credit sales, with the hopes that other large scale reforestation projects can be completed as investment grade enterprises.Reforest 39,150 hectares of land and maintain this tree cover on the land indefinitely. Of which 20,386 hectares are already reforested.PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD:This project was open for public comment from 29 October – 28 November 2019. 1)CCB_PRJ_DES_SUM_POR_DRAFT_1969_27OCT20192)CCB_PRJ_DES_SUM_ENG_DRAFT_1969_26OCT20193)Draft_A/R_CCB_VCS_Summary_MR_for_public_comments.pdf 4) Draft_A/R_MR_for_public_comments_portuguese.pdf In June 2022, this project changed its name from The ARC A/R Project to the Carbono Verde AR Project.


Project 2373
The Yellow Ipê Grouped REDD Project is located in the municipalities of Novo Aripuanã and Borba, south of Amazonas state, in the Northern region of Brazil. The Trans Amazonian Highway BR 230 is located in the south of the project region and, along its route, cattle raising can be found, which is one of the many agents to deforestation in the region. The primary objective of the Yellow Ipê Grouped REDD Project is to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) of a specific region within the municipalities of Novo Aripuanã and Borba. The first Project activity instance has an area of 86,097.67ha, as it is part of two private properties in Novo Aripuanã, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. However, other REDD project instances can be added into this grouped project activity in the future, as long as they comply with the eligibility criteria defined by the methodology and of the VCS Standard. Besides the ecological and carbon benefits of the project, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving social and environmental conditions for the local community around the project area, specifically contributing to environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored applying the SOCIALCARBON® Standard, which is based on six key indicators: Biodiversity; Natural; Financial; Human; Social and Carbon Resources. This REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 25,680.81ha of deforestation, equating to around 8,199,069 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30 year project lifetime (01-March-2020 to 28-February-2050).


Project 2465
The Cerrado biome, the main breadbasket of Brazil, is classified as a tropical wet and dry grassland/ savanna. Since 1985, the Cerrado biome has lost 46.8% of it’s native vegetation to agriculture. Conversion of native vegetation is predominantly occurring in private lands in the Cerrado biome because of Brazilian land-use regulation. The central piece of legislation regulating land use and management on private properties is the Brazilian Forest Code (Law No. 12,651, of May 25, 2012) and requires that landholders maintain a percentage of native vegetation on private lands. Currently, many landholders have surplus native vegetation in conservation on their land then legally required. According to the data calculated by Soares-Filho et al. (2014), there is approximately 40 million hectares of surplus native vegetation in the Cerrado that could be converted. Most landholders do not receive payments for ecosystem services to maintain the native vegetation, therefore, the only economic alternative is to convert native Cerrado for agricultural purposes. This results in landholders being incentivized to convert native vegetation to produce commodities, as the opportunity cost is higher. The consequence is ecosystem conversion, biodiversity loss, water loss and increased greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Avoided Grassland Conversion Cerrado Program was launched as a grouped project to provide an alternative for landholders with surplus native vegetation to receive payments for conservation by leveraging the voluntary carbon market. The main agent of conversion, the private landholder, foregoes their legal right to convert native vegetation, and in doing so avoids GHG emissions.


Project 2551
The Brazilian Amazon APD Grouped Project (GPD) aims the forest conservation on private properties located in the nine states of the Legal Amazon. The GPD main goal it is to create positive economic incentives to landowners for the rainforest and Cerrado conservation in private areas, through income generation from carbon credits commercialization. According to national law 12.651, the Brazilian forest code, landowners must conserve 80% of the forest cover and 35% of the Cerrado areas on properties located in the Legal Amazon. In this way, the areas with forest cover exceeding this percentage can be legally converted to other land uses for commercial activities such as cattle raising or agricultural projects, with the authorization of the responsible environmental agency in each state. The landowners who decide to join the initiative, by giving up their right to legally clear their forest areas will be able to access financial resources from the carbon voluntary market, becoming BRCarbon partners. The partnership between BRCarbon (BRC) and landowners will result in legal protection to forests, forest monitoring by satellite images, forest biomass inventory using drones and innovative aero photogrammetry techniques associated with LIDAR technology, property surveillance, wildfire monitoring, prevention and firefighting activities, threatened species protection and social engagement activities with traditional communities living inside the project area. BRC will be responsible for the development, implementation, monitoring and certification of the project instances. The landowner’s counterpart is to allow project activities to be implemented in their areas, in addition to freely committing to their long-term conservation. In this way, BRC expects to escalate the climate impact promoted by the implementation of carbon projects, bringing positive net benefits to communities and biodiversity.


Project 2558
The primary objective of the ABC Norte REDD Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 145,680.7882 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within a private property named “Fazenda Pacajá”, which is located between the municipalities of Portel and Bagre, in the State of Pará, Northeast Amazon. Environmental education and other social activities that benefit the local community will be supported, as well as improving the control of deforestation. The SOCIALCARBON® Standard is being applied to assess and monitor the project's contribution to sustainability using six key indicators: Biodiversity; Nature; Financial; Human; Social and Carbon Resources, thus improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region. In addition to contributing to the long-term conservation of the region, the ABC Norte REDD Project also establishes a barrier against the advancement of deforestation, making it an important contribution to the conservation of Northeast Amazon biodiversity and also to climate regulation in Brazil and South America. The present REDD project is estimated to avoid a predicted 9,245 ha of deforestation, equating to 3,560,042 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 10 year project lifetime (14-September-2017 to 13-September-2027).


Project 2566
The Instituto Homem Pantaneiro's (IHP) REDD+ project for the protection of the Amolar Network (in Portuguese Rede de Proteção e Conservação da Serra do Amolar) named REDD+ Serra do Amolar project is part of the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) project category. Specifically, the project is part of the Avoided Unplanned Deforestation and Degradation (AUDD) project category. REDD+ Serra does Amolar project preserves and conserves a representative part of the Pantanal ecosystem, which is about 140,900 ha, and which is located in the strategic region of the Mato Grosso do Sul and Mato Grosso. This region has high levels of deforestation risk caused by land speculation associated with livestock and agriculture. The project has quantifiables climate, community, and biodiversity (CCB) benefits because it provides full-time employment, training, and access for families that live in and around the project area to become self-empowered in a region where there are very few job opportunities. The project also seeks to promote and improve activities seven existing strategic lines, including ecotourism, research, fire prevention and governance/administration, and others. The Serra do Amolar project meets the criteria of GL3 Gold Level. - Exceptional benefits to Biodiversity, according to the vulnerability criterion described by CCB for presenting critically threatened species (IUCN Red List) as one endangered species – the giant otter (Pteronura brasiliensis) – and five vulnerable species: the lowland tapir (Tapirus terrestris), the white-lipped peccary, (Tayassu pecari), the giant armadillo (Priodontes maximus) and the giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) and the bare-faced curassow (Crax fasciolata). The project also has a well-documented population of the near-threatened jaguar (Panthera onca).


Project 3350
The ARR Horizonte Carbon Project’s purpose is to remove and reduce GHG emissions through an increase in forestry area in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, at the Cerrado biome, initially near the city of Três Lagoas. The carbon credits are a result of the change of land use in previous pasture areas, through the plantation of Eucalyptus species in an area of 14,427 ha, considered as the first project activity, as well as a result of the recovery of sandy areas, through the plantation of native vegetation most adequate for each case in an area of 999 ha, considered as the second project activity, both classified under the ARR category.


Project 738
The project for the reforestation of the Emas-Taquari ecological corridor is part of a broader strategy of conservation and restoration of the Cerrado-Pantanal biodiversity corridor. The project includes the reforestation of 589 hectares using native Cerrado species, especially those strongly interrelated with the fauna and/or those with non-destructive economic uses (non-timber), such as fruits, seeds, fibers, oils, and honey.The project aims at an average removal of 12.13 tons of CO2 per hectare per year, which, after 30 years2 shall have accumulated 363.81 tons of CO2e per hectare. At the end of 30 years all the areas to be reforested in the 588.9 hectares, the project anticipates a total stock of 214,245 tons of carbon dioxide, with 206,115 tCO2e being the net amount resulting from the project activity. It also involves 45 families and 35 addicts in project activities, providing technical training for producing seedlings and reforesting degraded areas; and generates employment and


Project 1995
Folha Larga Sul Renewable Energy is a Project that consists on the implantation and operation of wind power plants (WPP) in the state of Bahia, Brazil. The project will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, avoiding electricity generation from fossil fuels sources. Clean and renewable electricity supply will bring an important contribution to environmental sustainability. All WPPs will supply clean electricity to the Brazilian National Interconnected System (SIN). The estimated annual average GHG emission reductions is 332,753 tCO2 and total GHG emission reductions for the crediting period is 3,327,530 tCO2. PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD: This project was open for public comment from 13 November – 13 December 2019.


Project 2018
Santana Renewable Energy is a Project that consists on the implantation and operation of wind power plants (WPP) in the state of Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. It will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, avoiding electricity generation from fossil fuels sources. Clean and renewable electricity supply will bring an important contribution to environmental sustainability, reducing the GHG emissions that would occur in the absence of this project. The WPP will supply clean electricity to the Brazilian National Interconnected System (SIN). The estimated annual average GHG emission reductions is 222,331 tCO2 and total GHG emission reductions for the crediting period is 2,223,319 tCO2...PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD:This project was open for public comment from 20 November – 20 December 2019.


Project 2021
Gravier Renewable Energy is a Project that consists on the implantation and operation of a wind power plant (WPP) in the state of Ceará, Brazil. It will reduce greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions, avoiding electricity generation from fossil fuels sources. Clean and renewable electricity supply will bring an important contribution to environmental sustainability, reducing the GHG emissions that would occur in the absence of this project. The WPP will supply clean electricity to the Brazilian National Interconnected System (SIN). The estimated annual average GHG emission reductions is 124,580 tCO2 and total GHG emission reductions for the crediting period is 1,245,580.00 tCO2...PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD:This project was open for public comment from 20 November – 20 December 2019.


Project 2998
The purpose of this project is to mitigate and recover animal effluent related Greenhouse Gas (GHG) by improving the Animal Waste Management System practices in the confined animal feed operations in the cities located at the Mato Grosso do Sul state, central Brazil, developed by BRASCARBON. In Brazil the agricultural operations related to the confined animals procedures are very wide and grow progressively and intensive to attend the worldwide food demand. There are three types of Confined Animal Operation for this project: finishing, breeding and nursery. The scenario existing prior to the implementation of the project activity is the same as the baseline scenario, as follows: the confined animal wastewater, which consists of fresh water mixed with manure and urine that accumulates in pits under or beside the barns, is transported to one open lagoon for evaporation, fed by gravity pipeline systems. The organic material degraded in the primary treatment lagoon is digested, thereby producing significant amounts of methane. These systems emit methane (CH4) resulting from anaerobic decomposition process. The swine livestock operations create profound environmental consequences, such as greenhouse gas emissions, odour and water/land contamination that result of storing animal waste, where this operation is not sustainable due to its sever environmental pollution. The Project Activity consists in the construction of a new covered in-ground anaerobic reactor (digester) that will utilize the organic material currently treated in the wastewater opened lagoon, of the confined animal operations to produce biogas. All manure will be sent daily directly to digester not exceeding 24 hours in the barns.


Project 3056
The purpose of BRASCARBON Methane Recovery Project BCA-BRA-17 project is to utilize the effluent produced on a total of 7 pig farms in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, in Brazil, to capture methane and generate biogas. The projects have the potential to generate energy from waste using the biogas produced and captured. Energy derived from this process is used to power onsite electricity within each of these projects. Before the project activity, local farmers considered waste as an externality in the pig production process. As such, minimal finance was allocated to this issue and wastewater was often treated in open water lagoons – frequently with profound environmental impacts. The projects demonstrate how the construction of a set of new, covered, in-ground anaerobic digesters can utilize the organic material from the animal operations to produce biogas and fertilizer, whilst reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The basis of the projects is the anaerobic digestion, whereby microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen. As part of an integrated waste management system, anaerobic digestion reduces the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and produces a rich biogas, suitable for energy production, which can be used to replace fossil fuels. The nutrient-rich solids left after digestion are used as fertilizer and the better wastewater management allows more water for irrigation.


Project 3448
The proposed VCS project activity titled “Landfill gas collection and utilization at MARCA Cariacica - II landfill” encompasses the promotion of collection and destruction/utilization of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) at the most recently licensed major MSW expansion area of a previously existent landfill site (hereby termed “MARCA Cariacica - II landfill”) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare(s) and utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 5 MW).


Project 1027
The objective of the project, referred to as the IWC BRAZILIAN AMAZON GROUPED REDD APD, AUPD, AND BIOMASS TO FUEL PROJECTS (hereafter, simply the IWC Projects), is to avoid emissions from planned deforestation and unplanned deforestation (e.g. by squatters and poachers), and (if viable) will additionally convert excess biomass from timber operations into a patented high-caloric biomass fuel on a property in the state of Para, Brazil. The project proponent is International Wood Corporation (IWC or “the company”), a development stage public company incorporated in the state of Colorado, with its primary intended business operations comprising of forestry management and the commercialization of exotic hardwoods for export. IWC has been working in forest management in the Brazilian Amazon since 1997. IWC currently holds options to purchase additional parcels of land in the Amazon rainforest upon which future instances of projects, if any, would be located. The specifics regarding the detai


Project 1561
We have the largest private forest native to Brazil. With just over 3 million hectares and our focus is on sustainable forestry management plan for carbon capture and sequestration. With our expertise in FSC certified forest we will have not only the benefit of the exploitation of the wood no longer fulfill its role in the forest that is the carbon cycle, to fulfill a noble role, which is the production of wooden pieces that will generate jobs of its production until its implementation, because our intention is to provide certified wood parts for the production of social houses with a focus on low-income population. The Four Woods, with Environmental concern in the maintenance of its forestry processes, not just extract a maximum of 5 trees per hectare, as is committed to grow the trees on site 5 to 8 from each tree what will increase the density of the forest, the improvement of climate with increased capture of CO ² of the atmosphere and the resulting will be wood.


Project 1596
The Juma Sustainable Development Reserve Project for Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation plus forest management (“Juma REDD+ Project”) aims to address deforestation and its resulting emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) in an area of the State of Amazonas, which is under great land use pressure. Its implementation is part of a wide strategy planned and initiated in 2003 by the current Government of the State of Amazonas to halt deforestation and promote sustainable development in Amazonas, based on giving value to the environmental services provided by its standing forests. (BRAGA & VIANA et al., 2003; AMAZONAS, 2002). PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD: This project was open for public comment from 16 December 2019 – 15 January 2020. The project proponent applies the approved VM00015 v1.1 methodology. It has been estimated that 1,703,443 tCO2e of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions will be avoided by the implementation of the project activities over the initial 10 years baseline period. The overall risk rating was 19%. Therefore, the total number of credits to be deposited in the buffer account is 391 447 VCUs and the total VCUs to be issued are 1 311 996 tCO2e.


Project 2359
The Serra do Sudeste Landscape Restoration and Reforestation Project (‘Project’) is a VCS AFOLU (Agriculture, Forestry and Other Lands Use) project (scope 14), falls specifically under the ARR (Afforestation, Reforestation and Revegetation) category and uses methodology AR-AMS0007. The project goal is the reforestation of degraded lands, which would continue to remain degraded, and would become increasingly more degraded, in absence of the project. The project aims to restore natural biodiverse forest and produce crops through agroforestry in other areas. This is done through Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR). A secondary goal is to expand in the region. In this case, the first farm will serve as a hub to be able to scale to adjacent farms and acquire more land to add to the project. The farm has been used extensively for cattle ranching and has an average livestock load of 600 cows. As a result, the land has been rid of its vegetation and the soil quality is gradually decreasing. The environmental damage and the decline of economic viability of the business as usual, has caused the owner to consider a sustainable strategy. The project is located in Brazil – Municipality of Bagé, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. The total area of the project is 1.037 hectares and is privately owned by the Titton family (‘Owner’). An estimated 458 ha is suitable for reforestation. The project is expected to generate GHG emissions reductions through reforestation of degraded grassland. Biomass growth in the project area is expected to sequester. Also, following out the strategy a total of 244.565 tonnes of CO2 is to be sequestered by reforestation of native forest. This results in an average annual amount of 8.152,2 tonnes of CO2. The crediting period lasts 30 years and runs from March 1, 2021 to February 28, 2051.


Project 2482
The primary objective of the Boa Fé REDD Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of a subsection of the 432.690,25 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest, within a private property in the municipality of Apuí, southern Amazon. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The Boa Fé REDD Project makes an important contribution to the conservation of Southern Amazon biodiversity and also to climate regulation in Brazil and South America. In addition to contributing to the long term conservation of the region, this project also has the function of establishing a barrier against the advancement of the Brazilian Arc of Deforestation, creating a Southern Amazon biodiversity corridor by adjoining to other protected areas in the region. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 92,543 ha of deforestation, equating to 57,808,000 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (01-January-2020 to 31-December-2049).


Project 2553
The objective of the proposed project in Brazil is to restore degraded lands and improve the connectivity of forest cover to restore genetic diversity and achieve viable wildlife populations of endemic, threatened, and endangered species. The Project focuses on biodiversity conservation and wildlife habitat restoration with the active participation of the local communities.


Project 2586
The 413 REDD Project (413 Project) aims to reduce emissions derived deforestation and forest degradation in the Amazonian tropical rain forest. The project proponent is 413 Environmental, LLC, and BMO Radicle Brazil have prepared the PD (Project Design). The project applies the Avoided Planned Deforestation (APD) approach and uses VCS standards and methodologies to a REDD voluntary carbon market. The project's geographical boundary comprises a parcel land named Matá-Matá (500,996 hectares), with 500,996 hectares of primary ancient and undisturbed areas of tropical rainforest. Thus, the project area comprises 476,995 hectares of dense lowland forest, 17,705 hectares of dense alluvial forest and 5,914 hectares of dense sub-montane forest. The parcel land is situated in the municipalities of Manicoré and Novo Aripuanã, southern State of Amazonas, Brazil. The project will generate GHG emission reductions from changes in land use caused by imminent deforestation and forest degradation. The emission of 43,973,073 tons of CO2e will be avoided with the 413 project, considering a lifespan of 30 years, with an annual average of 1,465,769 tons of CO2e calculated for the whole period (2021- 2050) and 34,615,467 for the first 10-year crediting period (2021-2030). The 413 Project seeks to be validated as Golden Level because exceptional climate measures will be undertaken to adapt the population to climate change. The baseline was conceived from the most-likely scenario, which is converting 20% of the forest to pasture for cattle raising. The conversion of forests to alternative land uses of up to 20% of private properties is permitted by the Brazilian Forest Code but the project proponent decided to protect forest and avoid deforestation and forest degradation, reducing CO2 emissions. In the planned deforestation approach, the conversion agent in the baseline is the owner of the area because he has the right to deforest under the current legislation.


Project 2587
The Zero Carbon Aripuanã Valley REDD Project 1 (ZCH1 Project) aims to reduce emissions derived deforestation and forest degradation in the Amazonian tropical rain forest. The project proponent is Zero Carbon Holdings, LLC, and BMO Radicle has prepared the PD (Project Design). The project applies the Avoided Planned Deforestation (APD) approach and uses VCS standards and methodologies to a REDD voluntary carbon market. The project's geographical boundary comprises one parcel named Matá-Matá II (153,985 hectares) of primary ancient and undisturbed areas of tropical rainforest. Thus, the project area comprises 153,977 hectares of dense lowland forest of a unique pioneer natural shrubby vegetation. The project will generate GHG emission reductions from changes in land use caused by imminent deforestation and forest degradation. The emission of 13,705,917 tons of CO2e will be avoided with the ZCH1 project, considering a lifespan of 30 years, with an annual average of 456,864 tons of CO2e calculated for the whole period (2021-2050) and 1,301,887 for the first monitoring report, including Jan 1st, 2021 to December 31st 2022. The ZCH1 Project focuses on activities designated as Avoided Planned Deforestation (APD) and is built on the VCS VM0007 methodology. The baseline was conceived from the most-likely scenario, which is converting 20% of the forest to pasture for cattle raising. The conversion of forests to alternative land uses of up to 20% of private properties is permitted by the Brazilian Forest Code but the project proponent decided to protect forest and avoid deforestation and forest degradation, reducing CO2 emissions. In the planned deforestation approach, the conversion agent in the baseline is the owner of the area because he has the right to deforest under the current legislation.


Project 2620
The project protects over 199,962 ha in Portel, Para, ranked as a region depending on the year, either the 1st or 2nd highest rate of deforestation in the Amazon. The project goal is to transform Portel, Para one of the poorest, lowest educated regions of Brazil into a stable, developed region that depends on sustainable forest use for its economy. The project paid for 1252 traditional community families known as ribeirinhos to gain land tenure certificates in order to be able to complete this project. The project knows that the only way to completely end illegal logging is to have the ribeirinhos stable so they can be the ones that can state “No more”. The project working with neighboring REDD projects plans to build 30 additional high quality schools in the region, that will be used for children education, adult training, and university laboratories. These 30 additional high quality schools, health clinics and security offices are above and beyond the 30 schools, health clinics and security offices.


Project 2709
The primary objective of the Juruena River REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 45,675.15 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within 18 private properties, which are located in the municipality of Cotriguaçu, in the State of Mato Grosso, Southern Amazon. A Sustainable Forest Management Plan is also carried out in some of the properties. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predict ed 3,800 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,384,740 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30 year project lifetime (12-November-2021 to 11-November-2050).


Project 2726
The project is an innovative integration of industrial composting and increasing carbon stocks in soil. The proposed grouped project was implemented by Ambipar Environmental Solutions within the first instance located in the South of Brazil. The annual average estimation of carbon accrual is 2,337 tCO2e and 38,397 tCO2e of reduction. Compost application in soil has the potential of contribution to the carbon cycle, where simple nutrients that return to the soil are converted by plants into organic compounds engaging sustainable agricultural land management. Soil carbon accrual per unit area is measured in both baseline and project scenarios based on the spatial coordinated sampling gathering data on soil carbon concentration with statistical rigor. The project activities were designed to improve soils, including changes to agricultural practices, compost application and enhance biodiversity in soils. The measurement of the stable SOC concentration was set up to quantify soil dynamics at depth. The soil layers up to 80cm were sampled to estimate changes in carbon stock, excluding the top-soil 20cm. Prior to the implementation of this project, rural producers do not foresee regenerative agriculture due to the lack of knowledge and technical skills about how to switch to organic input, biological control of plagues and sustainable land management. The previous scenario within the project area outcome low productivity per area, soil degradation and no smart application of the compost provided through the waste management, which implied in deposition applications without potential reuse for climate change mitigation. Nowadays, this waste gets into the circular economy by its smart reuse and social and environmental positive influence. Ambipar manages great volumes across Brazil for about 50 industrial customers. Built on the raised potential for inclusion of new project activity instances, this grouped project brings up attractive engagement for high carbon landscapes.


Project 2790
The ARR Cerrado Carbon Project is located at the Cerrado Biome, in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil. It is an AFOLU project, and therefore is classified within scope 14. More specifically, the project falls under the ARR category. The ARR Cerrado Carbon Project’s purpose is to remove and reduce GHG emissions through an increase in forestry area and preservation of native vegetation in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, at the Cerrado biome, initially near the city of Ribas do Rio Pardo. The project also includes the management and implementation of various social activities at the local communities nearby. The carbon credits are a result of the change of land use in previous pasture areas, through the plantation of Eucalyptus species in an area of 38.708 ha (ARR category). The plantation activities will be developed in accordance with good forestry practices, and in addition, the project proponents will also seek certification under sustainable programs, such as the FSC, which can confirm the implementation of such practices.


Project 2870
The primary objective of the Gairova REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 26,000 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest in Juara, in the State of Mato Grosso, Southern Amazon. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard.


Project 2871
The primary objective of the Green Valley Grouped REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of 11,954.69 ha of project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within 7 private properties, which are located in Nova Bandeirantes, in the State of Mato Grosso, Southern Amazon. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 4,475 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,533,078 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (01-August-2018 to 30-July-2048), with an annual average of 51,103 tCO2e.


Project 2878
The Rio Madeira Grouped REDD+ Project is located in the municipalities of Porto Velho, Rondônia state and Lábrea, south of Amazonas state, in the Northern region of Brazil. The region is surrounded by many rivers and its borders having direct contact with Rio Madeira. The main objective of the Rio Madeira Grouped REDD+ Project is to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) of a region within the municipalities of Porto Velho and Lábrea. The first three Project activity instances have 53,640 ha of project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. Besides the ecological and carbon benefits of the project, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving social and environmental conditions for the local community around the project area, specifically contributing to environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored applying the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. This Grouped REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 17,722 ha of deforestation, equating to around 5,344,693 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (01-November-2019 to 31-October-2049).


Project 2950
The Limeira Atlantic Forest Biodiversity Conservation Project is located in the state of Paraná, south of Brazil. Its area is located within the Atlantic Forest Biome, home of a great diversity of fauna and flora, including several endemic and endangered species, including the terrestrial tapir (Tapirus terrestrial), the largest terrestrial mammal, described as (endangered, IUNC, 2011) in the Atlantic Forest due to habitat loss ( (Medici et.al., 2011). The preserved forest is an important generator of ecosystems services such as water supply, climate regulation, tourism, energy, unique maintenance , beyond the environment with unique natural beauty. This hot spot on earth suffers a great risk of being converted to non-ecological uses, as 70% of the Brazilian GDP is concentrated in it, only 12.4% of the original forest is left in Brazil, demonstrating that they cause a huge impact on this forest, which is limited by human development and agricultural. The project area is the home to more than 50 headwaters, which flow into the São João River, an important water resource in the region. It is part of the only region of the state of Paraná with preserved native vegetation, being an important ecological corridor for the passage of fauna between two large National Parks. Areas such as the project are subject to intense risk every day, mainly due to degradation, which happens little by little, but causes a huge impact on this biome so fragile by human development. This project extends itself through the territory of the municipalities of Guaratuba and Morretes, inside the rural area where the economy is based on agriculture and extractivism, being bananas and peach palm the main crops. The production and trade of these products is driven by the close Limeira state highways and by the Limeira street which passes through the project’s area from North to South, so it is considered th margins of this road, areas susceptible to deforestation.


Project 2980
The primary objective of the Feijó REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 27,248.86 ha project area, and to avoid planned deforestation (APD) of the 5,094.85 ha project area within two private properties in the municipality of Feijó, State of Acre, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The AUD REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 15,697.94 ha of deforestation, equating to 6,295,553 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (02-January-2019 to 01-January-2049), with an annual average of 209,852 tCO2e. The APD REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 1,751 ha of deforestation, equating to 7,153,896 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (02-January-2019 to 01-January-2049), with an annual average of 238,463 tCO2e.


Project 3002
The Hiwi REDD+ Project is a 20,505 hectare area of tropical rainforest located close to the municipalities of Bujari, Rio Branco and Porto Acre, in the state of Acre, Northern Brazil. The state of Acre is facing a rise in deforestation due to cattle ranching activities, with an 8.3% increase of cattle heads from 2020 to 2021. The municipality of Rio Branco has the highest cattle herd in the State, with 14% of the total . Bujari also presented an increase of 15.5% from 2018 to 2020 , while Porto Acre the growth was of 23.5% in the same period. Deforestation in the municipalities from 2018 to 2020 had a boost of 198%, 89% and 154%, respectively. The project will promote forest conservation and, consequently, reduce greenhouse gas emission that would occur due to deforestation. A consortium of 4 rural properties comprises the Hiwi REDD+ Project Area.


Project 3041
Easy Volt Brasil LTDA is building a nationwide charging network for Electric Vehicles (EV). This network will improve the national infrastructure, which today is still precarious, by increasing the number of charging stations for electric vehicle either for commercial fleets and / or private owners. The service Easy Volt Brasil LTDA network delivers comprises not only on the recharging the vehicles but also creating and installing the necessary and adequate infrastructure and managing the charging stations using its own application throughout Brazil.


Project 3049
The primary objective of the Rio Preto REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the 3,096 ha project area, consisting 100% of Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within 2 private properties in Nova Marilândia and Santo Afonso municipalities, in the State of Mato Grosso. This project was designed as a grouped project, in order to be able to increase its contribution to the standing forest with the addition of new project activity instances in the future. The contribution to sustainability is monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard, which is based on six main indicators: Biodiversity; Natural; Financial; Human; Social and Carbon Resources. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 1,287 ha of deforestation, equating to 477,066 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 15,902 tCO2e.


Project 3050
Current research established nine planetary boundaries to define the environmental limits within which humanity can safely operate. Within those, two core boundaries — climate change and biosphere integrity — have been highlighted, each of which has the potential to drive the Earth system into a new state should they be substantially and persistently transgressed (Rockström et al., 2009; Steffen et al., 2015). Inspired by a call of action, Maraui Program was designed to act upon the two wicked problems — Climate Change & Biodiversity Loss. Maraui Program intends to halt GHG emissions by avoiding ecosystem conversion while protecting Biodiversity. Furthermore, such a program aims to aid in a range of pressing issues, from preserving Freshwater Resources to improving Traditional Communities’ livelihood. The Program is a grouped project - as per VCS definition - located in the states of Piauí and Maranhão, Brazil. Owners of rich Biodiversity, Piauí and Maranhão states are home to one of the most intense agricultural frontiers of the country and are the most poverty-stricken states - the lowest average income in Brazil (IBGE, 2021). At the issuance of this document, one Project Activity Instance (PAI) has been instituted, Fazenda Boqueirão (27,458.29 hectares).


Project 3055
The ITAÚBA REDD+ PROJECT aims at protecting forests in one of the regions having the highest deforestation trends in the Amazon Biome, in the municipalities of Itaúba and Marcelândia. Both the municipalities are inside the “Arc of Deforestation” and since the colonization of the municipalities, besides the damage caused to natural ecosystems, several social conflicts have emerged from the dynamics of unsustainable land use, associated with the extensive deforestation and degradation activities. Throughout time, communities with livelihoods based on family-scale agriculture and forest resources were expulsed from the region and gave place to large scale agricultural and pasture activities. For the project period, the baseline scenario for the Project Area indicates that the historical patterns of change in land-use would be reproduced: extensive deforestation and systematic conversion from forest to soy crops and pasture areas for cattle ranching, far above the limits stablished by the Brazilian Forest Code. The project activities are designed to avoid the deforestation drivers that would realize the referred baseline in the without project scenario, with the long-term vision of restoring the relation of local communities of rural workers with the forest areas and contribute with the transition to socioeconomic scenario build on bioeconomy principles. With project activity approval, the proponents intend to improve the mechanisms of remote and in loco surveillance, as well as implement activities that will result in other climate, community, and biodiversity benefits.


Project 3141
The WARG Project is an initiative led by Carbon Credits Consulting SRL and a group of landowners in the state of Acre to protect multiple parcels of precious native forest. The project gives landowners with small and medium sized properties the opportunity to participate in a REDD+ project which will bring biodiversity, community, and climate benefits to their land. The project areas are in the region known as the Amazon deforestation arc and are located in a region of high conversion rates from original forest habitat to pasture and/or large areas of agricultural crops. The Brazilian economy in the south of the Amazonian regions, has been based based on native forest clearing to allow cattle-ranching, often without appropriate management technologies. Considering the infertile soil in the Amazon Forest, its exposure to the weather, and to little improvement in agricultural technology the region is hampered by low productivity, leading to increasing deforestation to ensure profitability. The WARG project intends to deliver significant improvements in the area’s monitoring, with remote sensing technology implementation to identify any signs of modification in the Project Area and surroundings, in addition to training staff for field monitoring. The project will also be implementing satellite wildfire detection systems and teams of fire fighters to detect fires early before they reach an unmanageable size. The project is expected to avoid the emission of 3,620,766 tCO2eq in the first 10 years. The actual project area is 60,000 ha of native forest divided in 22 properties, with an ambitious target for continuous expansion to a total area of 500,000 ha. Finally, the project has been protecting the Brazilian Big Five which include the giant anteater, the giant armadillo, the maned wolf, the puma, and the jaguar on top of a multitude of other endangered animal and plant species.


Project 3152
The primary objective of the Alto Xingu Grouped REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD), consisting of Amazon rainforest and Cerrado, the latter known as the Brazilian savannah. The project area occupies both biomes, and the first instance is composed by 4 private properties, with a project area of 15,256.33 ha, which are located in Paranatinga municipality, at Mato Grosso State. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 14,639 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,737,032 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (20-July-2021 to 19-July-2051).


Project 3166
The ReforesTerra grouped project aims to recover low-intensity and degraded pasturelands in the Baixo Rio Jamari watershed in the State of Rondônia, Brazil, in the Southern Amazon region. The first project activity instance consists of the reforestation of 2,000 hectares in smallholdings. Available data indicates a potential for reforestation over 20,000 hectares in the watershed. Through the reforestation of degraded lands in Permanent Protection Areas (PPAs) surrounding water bodies and in Legal Reserves (LRs) in other areas of the engaged landholdings, the grouped project aims to protect water resources and reintroduce native tree species. Additionally, the project is expected to benefit to 600 landholders in the first instance through capacity building and Payment for Ecosystem Services, as well as employing 37 local people full time and 12 other professionals in the region part time, with equal job opportunities for women and men. The first project activity instance will remove 805,304 tCO2e over the 30-year crediting period.


Project 3281
Andrade Sun Farms REDD+ Fazenda Santa Rita promote forest conservation and the reduction of potential greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, based on an economic development model. place that values forest preservation through a mosaic of activities associated with the organic production of Tahiti lime (Citrus latifolia). The Project area is located in Cerrado biome vegetation, the second largest Brazilian biome, after the Amazon, where thousands of species of animals and plants that only exist in this region live. More than 14 million people also inhabit the Cerrado, many of whom depend on agriculture and livestock to survive and help the economy grow. The “Brazilian savannah” is also the country’s water tank: it concentrates the main springs and some of the most important tributaries of the three largest hydrographic basins in South America (Amazonas, Paraguay and São Francisco). With the approval of the REDD+ Project and the consequent issuance of carbon credits, the values measured in their sale will be destined to optimize the management directed to forest areas, both legal reserve and forest surplus, to promote high productivity in these areas. ensuring a decrease in deforestation and GHG emissions. Such actions will be linked to sustainable management of production areas.


Project 3299
The project “Serra do Sudeste” is a grouped project, falling under the Afforestation, Reforestation and Revegetation (ARR) category and targeting the following Verra certifications: Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), and Climate, Community & Biodiversity Standard (CCB). The Serra do Sudeste Grouped Project aims to restore forest formations that are diminished due to the expansion of other land use practices such as overgrazing on extensive cattle ranches, intensive agriculture and silviculture systems. The grouped project is located in the Pampa biome in Rio Grande do Sul, south of Brazil. Restoration is attained through forestation activities using primarily native species and includes enrichment planting with valuable species as well as assisted natural regeneration. The overarching goal of the project is to create a natural and biodiverse forest that combines carbon capture with a diversity of other economic functions such as apiculture, sustainable production of crops and exploitation of forest products.


Project 3304
The primary objective of the Boa Esperança REDD+ Project is to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) of 8,943.38 ha of project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area has 1 instance, which is located within a private property, in the municipality of Presidente Figueiredo, Amazonas State. Besides the ecological and carbon benefits of the project, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving social and environmental conditions for the local community around the project area, specifically contributions to environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® and CCB standards. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 678 ha of deforestation, equating to 183,542 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (07-March-2022 to 06-March-2052), with an annual average of 5,921 tCO2e.


Project 3306
The primary objective of the Buritirana Grouped REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD), consisting of Cerrado biome, known as the Brazilian savannah. Such biome is severely threatened by agriculture and cattle ranching, and, as a REDD project under VCS rules, offers the possibility to expand the conservation to other areas in the future. The project area occupies private properties, with a project area of 4,037.145 ha, located in Ponte Alta do Bom Jesus, Tocantins State, Western Amazon. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 1,042 ha of deforestation of Cerrado Biome in an area of 4,037.145 ha, equating to 154,467 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (03-September-2020 to 02-September-2050), with an annual average of 5,149 tCO2e.


Project 3332
The SIMFlor (Systematic Implementation of the Brazilian Forest Code) Programme 2, hereinafter known as “SIMFlor2”, is a grouped project located in the arc of deforestation within the Amazon biome. SIMFlor2 will provide carbon finance to promote native forest conservation in areas under threat of deforestation for the expansion of extensive cattle ranching thereby promoting compliance with the Brazilian Forest Code.


Project 3334
The Marajó REDD+ Project has been designed for the protection of forests and rich biodiversity in the Amazon. It is part of the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) project category. Specifically, the project is of the “Avoided Unplanned Deforestation & Degradation” (AUDD) project category.


Project 3380
The SIMFlor (Systematic Implementation of the Brazilian Forest Code) Programme 1, hereinafter known as “SIMFlor1”, is a grouped project located in the arc of deforestation within the Amazon biome. SIMFlor1 will provide carbon finance to promote native forest conservation in areas under threat of deforestation for the expansion of extensive cattle ranching thereby promoting compliance with the Brazilian Forest Code.


Project 3404
The proposed VCS project activity titled “EcoParque Paulínia landfill gas project” encompasses the promotion at the Ecoparque Paulínia landfill site of destruction and/or utilization and/or supply to consumer(s) of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare(s), utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 28.52 MW) and supply of upgraded1 LFG to consumer(s) with a LFG processing and supply infrastructure of combined installed capacity of 10,000 Nm/³/h.


Project 3430
Juruá REDD+ Project is a partnership between Biofílica Ambipar Environment and Amazônia Agroindústria EIRELI, in order to foster forest conservation and the reduction of potential greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions based on a local economic development model that values the “standing” forest through the integration of non-timber forest product management and trading of environmental services. Juruá REDD+ Project is located at Seringal Valparaíso property, in the Alto Juruá region, between the municipalities of Cruzeiro do Sul and Porto Walter, including an area of 24,076 hectares. Juruá River basin is formed by four micro-basins: the micro-basin of Igarapé do Meio, the micro-basin of Igarapé Primeiro de Março and the Igarapé Grande micro-basin, in addition to the Valparaiso river basin (micro-basin) itself, which is the main drainage network of the rubber plantation region. The purpose of the project is to reduce GHG emissions from activities regarding to conserve the forest and its natural resources, as well as to maintain carbon stocks, through activities that promote the reduction of deforestation in the region, such as the improvement of patrimonial vigilance, the monitoring of land use change and land cover using satellite images and strengthening the management of non-timber forest products. The performance of activities allied to a good project management, with continuous monitoring and evaluation of activities and results, will allow the Project to reach the expected goals and effects. Therefore, it is expected that Juruá REDD+ Project prevents, by curbing deforestation, about 3,431,971 tCO2e by reducing GHG emissions throughout 30 years of the project. All the proposed activities to curb deforestation will become economically feasible if the management of non-timber forest products is combined with the trading of carbon credits through REDD+ carbon crediting mechanisms.


Project 3447
ARR SLB Paraná is an Afforestation and reforestation (AR )grouped project located in the Brazilian state of Paraná in the municipalities of Tomazina, Sapopema y Arapoti. Its main objective is to mitigate climate change through the carbon sequestration with eucalypt forest plantations. The project aims to promote the sustainable development of the forestry sector by providing fair job opportunities, recovering degraded soils from livestock and traditional and industrialized agriculture for soybean cultivation, and conserving natural forest areas within the project areas to enhance and protect the local biodiversity.


Project 3451
The primary objective of the Harpia Grouped REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) of the Amazon rainforest and, as a grouped project, offers the possibility to expand the conservation to other areas in the future. The first instance is composed of 3 properties, with a project area of 18,700.24 ha, located in Cotriguaçu, State of Mato Grosso. Besides the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 3,681 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,552,613 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (09-December-2019 to 08-December-2049), with an annual average of 51,753 tCO2e.


Project 3590
The Jutaituba REDD+ Project is a partnership between the Biofílica Ambipar Environment and Martins Agropecuária, belonging to the Martins Group and aims to promote forest conservation and mitigate climate change by reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from changes in land use. In addition to climate benefits, the Project also aims to generate socio-environmental benefits based on sustainable economic development practices and the improvement of the well-being of surrounding communities, while preserving the culture and tradition of local peoples. The Project Area has 129,417 ha of Amazon rainforest and is located almost entirely in the mesoregion of Marajó, in the State of Pará, covering the cities of Bagre, Portel, Baião and Oeiras do Pará. It is located near BR 422, known as the Transcametá highway, and near the rivers Pacajá, Jacundá and Tocantins. Communities that are directly or indirectly influenced by the Project were identified, either because they provide labor to Fazenda Jutaituba or are geographically close to the Project Area and depend on the forest resources present in the area, such as nuts and medicinal herbs. The region has great relevance in relation to its biodiversity, being an ecological corridor that makes it possible to connect Conservation Units (UCs) that are nearby. The predominant vegetation is the Dense Ombrophilous Forest with a high density of medium and large trees, as well as woody and epiphytic lianas. It houses at least 24 species of fauna and flora with some degree of threat according to the IUCN Red List, some of which are endemic to the region. Thus, the Jutaituba REDD+ Project hopes, in addition to climate impacts, to improve the well-being of communities and generate exceptional benefits for local biodiversity.


Project 3601
The CAAPII REDD+ PROJECT aims to protect the Amazon Forest present in properties inserted in the municipalities of Paragominas, Ipixuna do Pará and Tomé- Açu in the Pará State, in Brazil. This region has historically high rates of deforestation, especially associated with conflicts of land tenure, and the high value of activities of other land-use such as livestock and soybean production. The illegal exploraration of timber and other illegal activities such as hunting affect the forest, the biodiversity , the climate and consequently the local population as well. The conservation of 33,766.64 hectare of Ombrophilous Dense Forest with the CAAPII REDD+ Project will reduce more than 14 millions tCO2e of GHG emissions and bring positive impacts to the region with the project activities. The actions have as goals the preservation of the forest, as well as the improvement of the well-being of the communities, biodiversity and climate regulation. A socioeconomic diagnosis on each community involved in the project conducted the design of the project activities in order to encourage the growth of environmental awareness and the sustainable development, aligned with the conservation of the forest and fauna and flora species. With the approval of the CAAPII REDD+ Project, the forest areas inside the properties can be protected and the project activities can be implemented aiming to bring climate, community, and biodiversity benefits.


Project 3617
The proposed VCS project activity titled “EcoParque Sergipe Landfill Gas Project” encompasses the promotion at the Ecoparque Sergipe landfill site of destruction and/or utilization and/or supply to consumer(s) of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare(s), utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 7.13 MW) and supply of upgraded LFG to consumer(s) with two LFG processing and supply infrastructure of combined installed capacity of 2,500 Nm3/h each resulting in a total combined capacity of 5,000 Nm3/h.


Project 3631
Project seeks to address the issue of deforestation in the Amazon biome on a local level at the state of Acre, Brazil . The IACO REDD+ Project is an AFOLU project, and therefore is classified within scope 14. More specifically, the project falls under the Avoided Unplanned Deforestation and Avoided Planned Deforestation (categories). If this REDD+ project is implemented, 60,805 hectares of Amazon rainforest will be conserved over the first 30 years, avoiding the emission of 26,040,427 tons of CO 2 into the atmosphere. Under the social sphere, the project also brings benefits for the region . The IACO REDD+ project proponents recognize the essential role of the participation of project area residents and neighbors in the success of this project.


Project 3666
The primary objective of the Xingu-Araguaia Grouped REDD+ Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) in a 10,004.42-ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is in São José do Xingu and São Félix do Araguaia, in the State of Mato Grosso, Southern Amazon. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities. The contribution to sustainability is being monitored through the application of the SOCIALCARBON® Standard. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 4,312 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,421,408 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (15-October-2020 to 14-October-2050), with an annual average of 47,380 tCO2e.


Project 3670
The proposed VCS project activity titled “Meioeste UniCarbo landfill gas to energy project” encompasses the promotion at the Meioeste landfill site of destruction and/or utilization and/or supply to consumer(s) of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosedopen flare(s), utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 5 MW) and a predicted supply of upgraded LFG to consumer(s) with an LFG processing and supply infrastructure of combined installed capacity of 5,000 Nm³/h.


Project 3727
The Corridors for Life ARR Grouped Project aims at mitigating climate change through planting of native trees that will remove carbon from the atmosphere, environmental and biodiversity conservation through the formation of ecological corridors that promote connectivity between the remaining forest fragments and protect the soil, and the generation of employment and income through training and acquisition of products and services from local companies of the reforestation chain. With this, the project has the potential over its 50 years lifetime to reforestate 75,000 hectares and remove 29,213,780 tons of CO2e, generate at least 600 jobs, benefit at least 180 women and contribute to the conservation of 8 endangered species according to the IUCN Red List.


Project 3738
The Triunfo do Xingu Grouped REDD+ Project (hereinafter also referred to as “TdX”) is composed by seven rural properties located in the Municipality of Altamira, in the south region of the State of Pará. According to the geo-referencing data, the total area of the project is established at 10,636.02 ha. This project aims to be registered under the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD), combating the decreased carbon stock in the Brazilian Legal Amazon. The crediting period of the project is 30 years. The start date is on August 31, 2022 and, therefore, the crediting period is expected to end on August 30, 2052. The baseline scenario developed is going to be used for the first six years of the project, since, according to VCS requirements, these six years are the maximum period until a baseline scenario reassessment needs to be done. The present analysis, that will be employed in the project validation and future project verifications, is going to be done in a conservative approach, keeping the project consistent. The TdX aims for the following objectives: environmental benefits through a successful monitoring system; economic benefits resulting in regional development through investments in local communities. To execute the installation of this project and to achieve its objectives the VCU generation is very important. A baseline reduction of 1,565,285.35 tCO2e of GHG is expected over six years, associated with the avoided deforestation of 6,167.07 ha.


Project 3743
The Grouped project aims to implement forest restoration activities throughout the Brazilian Atlantic Forest Biome (hereinafter project zone), mainly in substitution of exotic grasslands formerly used for cattle raising, but also on lands used for annual agriculture (e.g. soy, sugarcane, etc), perennial agriculture of low carbon stocks (coffee, citrus, etc) and/or other non-native ecosystems. The project zone comprises 17 States of the Brazilian territory and is located within climatic/edaphic conditions suitable for plant growth and encompasses a region of high value for biodiversity conservation. The initial objective is to restore approximately 88,400 hectares of forest cover within the project zone and the subsequent sequestration and storage of carbon in several carbon pools, such as aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, litter, dead wood, and soil organic carbon. Net greenhouse gas removals are estimated in approximately 47,634,218 tCO2e over 100 years, equivalent to the annual removal of 476,342 tCO2e. The removal of GHG (CO2) by the project’s activities is a consequence of the biological sequestration through plant’s photosynthesis, which potential is increased by the implementation of a continuum of human induced forest restoration activities, ranging from assisted natural regeneration to full planting, including sometimes the use of commercial woody from native species to trigger initial restoration process. In the absence of the project, the project areas would remain dominated by land-uses of low-carbon stock and/or continue to be occupied by non-native ecosystems as a consequence of anthropic activities practiced without properly sustainable management. The project’s first instance has 346.5 hectares,is located in the municipality of Eunápolis-Bahia/Brazil, and it is expected to generate 181,451 tCO2 over 50 years, equivalent to 3,629 tCO2/ha/year. As part of the Grouped Project dynamics, other project instances will be added within the project zone


Project 3746
The project “NaturAll Carbon Program – Conservation Agriculture and Land Management in Brazil” belongs to NaturAll Carbon Limited and is located in Brazil, South America. The area is located in 23 states, covering a total area of 414.8 million hectares. The extension of the project covers four Brazilian biomes, Caatinga, Cerrado, Atlantic Forest and Pampa. It is very important to highlight that in order to preserve forests and swamps, lands from Amazon and Pantanal biomes will not be part of this project. As the leading causes of high GHG emissions and agricultural soil degradation have already been identified and are linked to inadequate management practices. But, although there are several studies and research data from all over Brazil, until now, there has been no efficient program to raise awareness and support rural producers in the transition to conservationist soil management on their agricultural property. Adopting conservation practices in the areas of agricultural and livestock activities, the goal will be to help reduce and remove GHG from the atmosphere, increase Soil Organic Carbon (SOC), avoid soil degradation (physical, chemical, and biological), improving soil fertility and productivity, creating a better resilience to extreme weather events, providing food security and preserving natural resources and their ecosystem services. The choice of instances inserted in the project will be based on implementing one or more regenerative or conservationist practices from November 1st, 2019, which are not common in the region, and there is additionality. The project intends to expand over time and reach multiple instances, and a range of agriculture and livestock activities in the four Brazilian biomes described previously to help drive resilient and sustainable agropastoral systems in these locations.


Project 3772
The Grouped project aims to implement forest restoration activities throughout the Brazilian Amazon Forest Biome (hereinafter project zone), mainly in substitution of exotic grasslands formerly used for cattle raising, but also on lands used for annual agriculture (e.g. soy, sugarcane, etc), perennial agriculture of low carbon stocks (coffee, citrus, etc) and/or other non-native ecosystems. The project zone comprises 9 States of the Brazilian territory and is located within climatic/edaphic conditions suitable for plant growth and encompasses a region of high value for biodiversity conservation. The initial objective is to restore approximately 181,500 hectares of forest cover within the project zone and the subsequent sequestration and storage of carbon in several carbon pools, such as aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, litter, dead wood, and soil organic carbon. Net greenhouse gas removals are estimated in approximately 107,244,226 tCO2e over 100 years, equivalent to the annual removal of 1,072,442 tCO2e. The removal of GHG (CO2) by the project’s activities is a consequence of the biological sequestration through plant’s photosynthesis, which potential is increased by the implementation of a continuum of human induced forest restoration activities, ranging from assisted natural regeneration to full planting, including sometimes the use of commercial woody from native species to trigger initial restoration process. In the absence of the project, the project areas would remain dominated by land-uses of low-carbon stock and/or continue to be occupied by non-native ecosystems as a consequence of anthropic activities practiced without properly sustainable management. The project’s first instance has 8826.16 hect and is located in the municipality of Maracaçume/Brazil. It is expected to generate 5,059,265 tCO2e over 50 years, equivalent to 101,185 tCO2e/year. As part of the Grouped Project dynamics, other project instances will be added within the Project Zone.


Project 3798
iFood is a Brazilian online food ordering and food delivery platform, operating in Brazil and other regions founded in 2011. The underlining “iFood Pedal Project” (simply “iFood Pedal” from here onwards), which is the company’s initiative to shift the delivery transportation mode from conventional gasoline motorcycles to mechanical and electrical bikes and part of a commitment to have at least 50% carbon free delivery operations1. The primary objective of iFood Pedal project (the “Project” or “iFood Pedal”) is to promote alternative mobility with the following technologies and/or measures: “Implementation and expansion of new bicycle sharing programs, and introduction of e-bikes in different locations throughout Brazil,” using the approved CDM methodology AMS-III.BM (Lightweight two and three wheeled personal transportation).


Project 3816
The project will be developed in the municipality of Apuí, in the state of Amazonas, Brazil - within the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) category. The project will conserve 71,822.56 hectares of native Amazon Rainforest in a region where deforestation pressure is mainly due to pasture activities, part of which will be designated to Avoiding Unplanned Deforestation (AUD) (56,349.96 ha), other to Avoiding Planned Deforestation (APD) (14,158.28 ha) and the remaining hectares corresponding to water resources (314.32 ha). For the total area (AUD+APD) and by the end of the project, it is estimated a total avoided emissions of 23,452,633.10 tons of Greenhouse Gases (tCO2e). The project will follow the CCB Standards, with benefits for Climate, Community, and Biodiversity. As benefits for climate, the maintenance of forest cover results in exceptional benefits for adaptation to the impacts caused by climate change, such as changes in rainfall regime, as the area presents a dense hydrographic network that contributes to the provision and quality of water in the Amazon River basin. As quantifiable benefits for Communities, the project will implement groundwater collection and distribution systems, installation of solar panels for electricity generation and provision of satellite internet service in low-income's extractive communities residences. The maintenance of forest cover ensures the conservation of biodiversity, the maintenance of ecosystem functioning (e.g., nutrient cycling) and of ecosystem services provisioning (e.g., carbon sequestration) performed by living organisms. It is noteworthy that the project includes a high priority area for biodiversity conservation, in compliance with the vulnerability criteria of the CCB Gold Level, as it presents species classified as Critically Endangered (CR) and Endangered (EN) according to the IUCN.


Project 3875
Future Green Carbon Project is an AFOLU initiative to be implemented in the Central West region of Brazil, specifically in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul (MS). It is a voluntary action of Eldorado Brasil Celulose S/A, aiming at the reforestation of more than 100,000 hectares with new and additional eucalyptus plantations , established exclusively on non forested and anthropized areas . In addition to the creation of carbon stocks through reforestation activities for production purposes , the project will also enable the recovery and conservation of carbon stocks based on native species for conservation purposes. Even tho ugh the restoration of such areas will be enabled by the project, resulting in direct climate benefits, VCUs will not be claimed for such activities.


Project 3877
The grouped project “Reforestation of land for multiple uses” is a voluntary action to promote sustainable tree planting in the Central-West region of Brazil, specifically in the states of Mato Grosso (MT), Mato Grosso do Sul (MS) and Goiás (GO), on non-forested lands. Its objective is to generate net removal of greenhouse gases through converting traditional land use in the region – e.g. non-forested/agricultural areas – into reforestation actions, based on the engagement of investors and independent rural producers. Also, the project proposes the restoration of nonforested lands with the purpose of enhancing carbon stocks of native vegetation, including protected areas, i.e. Permanent Preservation Areas, Legal Reserves, and other lands, as applicable to each case.


Project 3894
The proposed VCS project activity titled “Santa Maria Landfill Gas Project” encompasses the promotion of collection and destruction/utilization of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) at the previously existent landfill site (hereby termed “CTR Santa Maria Landfill”) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare(s) and utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 1 MW).


Project 3895
The registered VCS project activity “ITVR Sao Leopoldo landfill gas project” promotes methane destruction through collection and combustion of landfill gas (LFG) at the ITVR São Leopoldo landfill . As per its project description, combustion of collected LFG occurs in high temperature enclosed flare(s). Power generation from Landfill Gas is predicted to occur in 2023.


Project 3916
The proposed VCS project activity titled “Giruá Landfill Gas Project” encompasses the promotion of collection and destruction/utilization of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare(s) and utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 1 MW).


Project 4016
The Amazon Biome Conservancy Grouped REDD+ Project (hereinafter also referred to as “ABC”) has as its main objective to contribute to the preservation with the biggest tropical forest of the world in the Brazilian territory, while providing significant improvements in the social interface. The project for this validation process has only one project activity instance located in the Itacoatiara municipality, state of Amazonas near its capital of Manaus. According to the geo-referencing data, the total area of the project is established at 5,140 ha, which is composed of native Amazon Rainforest vegetation, without the existence of secondary vegetation since the land has not been cleared of native ecosystems within the last 10 years before the project start date. The project area consist of the ABC project is equivalent to the 20% of the landowner property area that he could legally suppress, according to the Brazilian forest code (Law 12.651, 2012). This project will be eligible under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) category, using the VM0007 methodology for Avoiding Planned Deforestation (APDD). The crediting period of the project is 30 years. The start date is on 19/11/2022 and the crediting period is expected to end on 18/11/2052. To execute the installation of this project and to achieve its objectives the VCU generation is very important. A reduction of 2,605,773.23 t CO2-e of GHG is expected over the next ten years for the first baseline developed and presented in this Project Description - PD (average of 260,577.32 t CO2-e per year).


Project 4027
The proposed VCS project activity titled “Guamá landfill Gas Project” encompasses the promotion of collection and destruction/utilization of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) at the CPTR Guamá landfill through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare and utilization as gaseous fuel in set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of about 2 MW).


Project 4034
The Agropalma REDD+ Project is a partnership between Biofílica Ambipar Environment and Agropalma Group and its purpose is to promote forest conservation, maintenance of carbon stocks and mitigation of climate change through the reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from land use change. In addition to the climate benefits, the Project also intends to generate social benefits based on sustainable economic development practices and improved well-being of the surrounding communities, as well as environmental benefits through actions aimed at the conservation of local flora and fauna. The Project area covers 50,519 hectares of Amazon forest and is located almost entirely in the northeastern mesoregion of Pará State, including the municipalities of Tailândia, Moju, Tomé Açu and Acará. The region has great relevance in relation to its biodiversity, since it is located in the Belém Center of Endemism (CEB), a place with a large concentration of rare and endemic species. The predominant vegetation is Dense Ombrophylous Forest with a high density of medium and large trees, besides woody lianas and epiphytes.


Project 4042
The Cauaxi REDD+ Grouped Project (hereafter called GPD) aims to conserve forests in several private properties located in northeast portion of Pará, close to the border with Maranhão. The Cauaxi River, which gives the project its name, is one of the tributaries of the Capim River, located in the central portion of the project's reference region, at Paragominas municipality. The GPD aims to create positive economic incentives for landowners to conserve rainforests in private areas that are vulnerable to degradation and deforestation, while contributing to net positive climate impacts as well as benefit to traditional communities and conserve biodiversity. By joining BRcarbon (hereafter known as BRC), forest owners can access funds from the carbon voluntary market to develop conservation and monitoring efforts in their forests. A partnership between BRC and landowners will result in the legal protection of forests, forest monitoring using satellite images, biodiversity inventory (including fauna e flora species), and forest biomass inventory in a broad scale, using a upscaling approach based on field collection, drone-borne and satellite sensors such as LiDAR (light detection and ranging). In addition, we will involve surveillance of property, wildfire monitoring, fire prevention and fighting, threatened species protection and social activities with traditional communities. As a result, BRC expects to enhance the climate impact of carbon projects, helping communities and biodiversity. The Cauaxi REDD+ Grouped Project is part of the company's initiative to promote forest conservation using the financial flows of the carbon market. This project is related to climate-positive impacts caused by the reduction of emissions caused by deforestation and avoided degradation (REDD+).


Project 4068
The primary objective of the Amazon Bluecarbon Grouped REDD Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) within its 3,242.18-ha area, consisting of 100% of mangrove forest. The Project Area is located within a private property in the municipality of São João de Pirabas, Pará State. This Project was designed as a grouped project, in order to be able to increase its contribution with the protection of the mangrove ecosystem, through the addition of new project activity instances in the future. It is expected that, with the present carbon project, it will be possible to expand the area’s surveillance, by hiring new professionals to work in the farm as well as to monitor it. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions. The present Bluecarbon REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 290.46 ha of deforestation, equating to 100,918 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 3,364 tCO2e.


Project 4069
The primary objective of the Mamuriá Grouped REDD Project is to Avoid the Unplanned Deforestation (AUD) within the 51,066.42 ha project area and Avoid Planned Deforestation (APD) of the 13,497.42 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is located within 2 private properties, which are located in municipalities of Feijó, Manoel Urbano and Santa Rosa do Purus in the State of Acre. It is expected that, with the carbon project, it will be possible to expand the monitoring of the area, hiring new professionals to work on the farms. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions. The AUD REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 6,807 ha of deforestation, equating to 679,673 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (07-October-2020 to 06-October-2020), with an annual average of 22,656 tCO2e. The APD REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 13,497.42 ha of deforestation, equating to 2,749,747 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 10-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 274,974 tCO2e.


Project 4072
The Fazenda Boa Vista Afforestation Project (FBV Project) established Eucalyptus plantations in the Municipality of Ponto dos Volantes in the north-eastern part of Minas Gerais state (Brazil). The Project is located in a transition zone of Atlantic Rainforest and Cerrado Biome. The project area was composed by degraded lands because of the extensive and traditional cattle breeding and remnants of natural forest. In this farm (and commonly in all other farms of the region) such pastures have been historically subject to burns that took place with the objective to reduce tree covers, expand pastures, and stimulate the regrowth of tender and nutritious sprouts during the dry season when pasture becomes fibrous in order to develop extensive cattle ranching activities. The Project is expected to capture 428,486 tCO2e in 20 years, with an average annual GHG removal of 21,424 tCO2e.


Project 4082
The main objective of the Canindé REDD+ Project is to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) within a project area of 4,458.86 ha and to avoid planned deforestation (APD) within a project area of 843 ha, both consisting of 100% of Amazon rainforest. The project area is located on 3 private properties, located in the municipality of Colniza, in the State of Mato Grosso. This project was conceived as a grouped project, in order to be able to increase its contribution to the standing forest with the addition of new instances of project activity in the future. The AUD REDD project is expected to avoid predicted deforestation of 4,458.86 ha, which is equivalent to 1,521,031 tCO2e in emission reductions over the 30-year life of the project (from 10/October/2022 to 09/October/2052), with an annual average of 50,701 tCO2e. The APD REDD project is expected to avoid predicted deforestation of 843 ha, which is equivalent to 163,451 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30 years of the project, with an annual average of 5,448 tCO2e.


Project 4084
The primary objective of the Arataú REDD Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) within the 25,417.85 ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is a private property, which is located in three different municipalities in the State of Pará: Tucuruí, Pacajá and Novo Repartimento. This project was designed as a grouped project, as to be able to increase its contribution to the standing forest with the addition of new project activity instances in the future. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 11,105 ha of deforestation, equating to 5,414,313 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 180,478 tCO2e.


Project 4089
The Rio Branco Grouped REDD Project is located in the state of Acre, Brazil, initially formed by 2 properties composed of 100% of the Amazon Forest. The project aims to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) in an area of 8,318 ha and to avoid planned deforestation (APD) in an area of 464 ha. In addition to the ecological and carbon benefits of the project, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving socio-environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control and developing environmental education and other social activities.


Project 4094
The primary objective of the Curuá Grouped REDD+ Project Project is to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) within the 9,549.61-ha project area, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project area is a private property, which is located in the municipalities Altamira and Novo Progresso, in the State of Pará. This project was designed as a grouped project, as to be able to increase its contribution to the standing forest with the addition of new project activity instances in the future. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions. The present REDD+ project is expected to avoid a predicted 5,695.70 ha of deforestation, equating to 3,173,663 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 105,789 tCO2e.


Project 4095
The Rio Manito Grouped REDD Project is located in the Marcelandia municipality, in the State of Mato Grosso. The project area are seven private instances consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The present REDD project is expected to avoid predicted 4,915 ha of deforestation equating to 3,083,553 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 102,785 tCO2e. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions.


Project 4117
The REDD Carbonflor is a multi-activity grouped project, located in Brazil, in the Amazon and Cerrado biomes. The project is classified in scope 14 - AFOLU (Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Uses) and falls into the category Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) in the scopes of planned (APD) and unplanned (AUDD) deforestation. The REDD Carbonflor´s main goal is to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) through the conservation of native vegetation in the Amazon and Cerrado biomes. The project is based on the conservation of the remaining forest cover of properties under pressure from deforestation and degradation.


Project 4131
Future Carbon Methane Capture Grouped Project is a grouped project. A centralized manure management plant operated by the International Center for Renewable Energy – CIBIOGAS serves as the first project instance. Such plant was designed to generate renewable electricity from the captured biogas and avoid environmental impacts due to inadequate treatment of swine manure. The plant is located in the municipality of Toledo, State of Paraná, in the South Region of Brazil and will replace animal waste management systems (anaerobic lagoons) from fourteen swine confinement farms located in the same city. The project was developed to reduce methane emissions and adequately treat the waste produced by small and medium-sized swine and cattle farms in feedlots. The project activity involved the installation of a centralized waste treatment plant (Biodigesters or bioenergy plants), with the capture of biogas that will be used to generate energy in biogas generator systems. This will replace anaerobic lagoons, which are considered the baseline scenario for livestock farms. Based on its first instance, this project is expected to reduce 93,085 tCO2e for its first crediting period, ranging from 01-March-2023 to 28-February-2030. Incremental emission reductions might be achieved with the inclusion of new project instances.


Project 4138
The Brusque landfill is a well-managed landfill site located in the municipality of Brusque in Santa Catarina State (Southeastern region of Brazil). The landfill started its operations in year 2009. This landfill site was designed and has been operated by the host-country project proponent and project owner and project proponent Recicle Catarinense de Resíduos LTDA. The proposed VCS project activity titled “Brusque Landfill Gas Project” encompasses the promotion of collection and destruction/utilization of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature enclosed flare and utilization as gaseous fuel in a set of engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (with final total combined nameplate installed capacity of 4.56 MW). As per its design configuration, combustion of collected LFG occurs in the following methane destruction device(s): - 1 high temperature enclosed flare; - 3 engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure (in which collected LFG will be utilized as gaseous fuel for electricity generation), that will be installed in 2024. - Possibility of future increase of the number of engine-generator sets, maintaining a total combined nameplate capacity up to 10 MW.


Project 4141
The Itamarati Grouped REDD Project is initially formed by 4 properties located in the municipalities of Nova Olímpia, Denise, Barra dos Bugres, Salto do Céu and Reserva do Cabaçal in the State of Mato Grosso, Brazil. Instance 1 is located in the Amazon and Cerrado biomes. The total area of the properties is 69,207.15 ha. The project aims to avoid the unplanned deforestation (AUD) within the 22,753.36 ha project area, consisting of 64% Amazon rainforest and 36% Cerrado. The present REDD project is expected to avoid predicted 4,861 ha of deforestation, equating to 1,264,521 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 42,151 tCO2e. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions.


Project 4142
The Serenity Valley REDD Project is located in three different municipalities in a private propert in the State of Pará, Brazil: Cumuaru do Norte, Santana do Araguaia and Santa Maria das Barreiras consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. The project aims to avoid the unplanned deforestation(AUD) within the 52,644.73 ha project area. The present REDD project is expected to avoid a predicted 19,220 ha of deforestation, equating to 6,251,508 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 208,384 tCO2e. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions.


Project 4143
The project area is located within 6 private properties, located in the municipality of Vila Rica, inthe State of Mato Grosso, Brazil , inserted in an area of transition from Cerrado to Amazon biome. The project aims to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) in a project area of 13,351 ha. The AUD REDD project is expected to avoid predicted deforestation of 6,214.13 ha of deforestation, equating to 2,309,793 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (01-February-2021 to 31-January-2051), with an annual average of 76,993 tCO2e. Beyond the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, and developing environmental education and other social activities.


Project 4165
The Seringueira Project is implemented in the municipality of Ipixuna, Amazonas State, Brazil. It falls under the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Uses (AFOLU) sector within the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) category The project will conserve 2,773.79 hectares of native Amazon rainforests in a region where deforestation pressure is mainly due to pasture activities, designated to Planned Avoided Deforestation (APD). For the total area and by the end of the project, it is estimated a total avoided emissions of 1,100,000.00 tons of Greenhouse Gases (tCO2e). The project will be developed considering the CCB Standard, with benefits for Climate, Community and Biodiversity. As benefits to the climate, the maintenance of forest cover results in exceptional benefits for adapting to the impacts caused by climate change, such as changes in the rainfall regime, as the area presents a dense hydrographic network that contributes to the provision and quality of water in the Amazon River basin. As benefits to the communities, the project will implement systems of underground water collection, installation of solar panels for electricity generation, provision of satellite internet service, construction of toilets with septic tanks, training of fire brigades, training of women in entrepreneurship, provision of assistance in the formation of community associations, and construction of a school. These measures will enable water security and access to information to minimize the impacts caused by climate change in traditional, low-income extractive communities.The maintenance of forest cover ensures the conservation of biodiversity, the maintenance of ecosystem functioning (e.g., nutrient cycling) and of ecosystem services provisioning (e.g., carbon sequestration) performed by living organisms. It is noteworthy that the project includes a high priority area for biodiversity conservation, according to the CCB Gold Level vulnerability criteria.


Project 4209
The primary objective of the Oeste de Caucaia Landfill Project Activity is to avoid greenhouse gases emission by the Oeste de Caucaia Landfill through landfill gas capture, purification and injection in a distribution grid, while contributing to the environmental, social and economic sustainability by minimizing global climate changes and local air pollution. The proposed Project Activity consists of capturing the landfill gas (LFG) generated by the landfill using an active LFG capture system and injecting it into a natural gas distribution network (after a purification process), displacing the use of natural gas. Any LFG excess will be flared. Applying the state-of-the-art on LFG capture technology, a collecting system is installed to avoid the free emission of methane to the atmosphere. The LFG captured is sent to the upgrading facility before being injected to the natural gas distribution grid. This type of project, i.e., upgrading of landfill gas to natural gas and injection into a natural gas distribution grid is not usual in Brazil.The Oeste de Caucaia Landfill Project Activity has a substantial positive impact in terms of sustainable development as it is one of the first projects that purify the LFG and injects it to a network distribution grid being developed in Brazil that, as consequence, directly displaces natural gas. An environmental benefit with the implementation of the Oeste de Caucaia Landfill Project is the destruction of methane that otherwise would be emitted to the atmosphere, increasing the impact on global warming. The project invests on training engineers and operators to the qualification level required by these new activities. Oeste de Caucaia makes use of the experience of its own shareholders as well as its international consultants to train and qualify the human resources necessary for the implementation and operation of the magnitude of the Oeste de Caucaia Landfill Project.


Project 4221
The Seringueira II project will be developed in the municipality of Ipixuna, Amazonas State, Brazil. It falls under the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Uses (AFOLU) sector within the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) category. The project will conserve 23,851.88 hectares of native Amazon rainforests in a region where deforestation pressure is mainly due to land use conversion activities from forests to pastures aimed at raising livestock. The project area (16,483.02 ha) will be allocated to Avoided Unplanned Deforestation (AUD), and it is estimated that at the end of the project the emission of 591,917.73 tons of Greenhouse Gases will have been avoided. The project will be developed considering the CCB Standard. As benefits to the communities, the project will implement systems of underground water collection, installation of solar panels for electricity generation, provision of satellite internet service, construction of toilets with septic tanks, training of women in entrepreneurship, provision of assistance in the formation of community associations, and construction of a school. These measures will enable water security and access to information to minimize the impacts caused by climate change in traditional, low-income extractive communities. As benefits to the climate, the maintenance of forest cover results in exceptional benefits for adapting to the impacts caused by climate change as the area presents a dense hydrographic network that contributes to the provision and quality of water in the Amazon river basin. The maintenance of forest cover also ensures the conservation of biodiversity, the maintenance of ecosystem functioning and of ecosystem services provisioning performed by living organisms. It is noteworthy that the project includes a high priority area for biodiversity conservation with species classified in the categories Endangered (EN) and Critically Endangered (CR) according to the IUCN red list.


Project 4237
The project involves demand side energy efficiency measures in public lighting infrastructure through the replacement of existing luminaires with more efficient technology, including “Light Emitting Diodes” (hereinafter referred to as “LEDs”) lightings in urban area of the municipality of Feira de Santana, state of Bahia (Instance 1) and Aracaju, state of Sergipe (Instance 2) in Brazil. The project covers activities such as installation, maintenance, expansion, replenishment, operation and management of all the public lighting infrastructure in the municipality of Feira de Santana and Aracaju (Brazil). This grouped project (Instances 1 and 2) will install 118,636 luminaires The public lighting infrastructure based on inefficient sodium mercury luminaires was the scenario prior to the implementation of the project.


Project 4263
The primary objective of the Sepoti REDD Project is to avoid unplanned deforestation (AUD) of a region within the municipalities of Novo Aripuanã and Borba. The first Project activity instance has 26,062 ha project area, which is within one private properties in Novo Aripuanã, consisting of 100% Amazon rainforest. It is expected that, with the carbon project, it will be possible to expand the monitoring of the area, hiring new professionals to work on the farms. In addition to the project’s ecological and carbon benefits, a proportion of the carbon credits generated will be dedicated to improving the social and environmental conditions in the project region, specifically contributing to improving deforestation control, aiming at the propagation of environmental awareness, generation of alternative sources of income and environmental education actions. The present REDD project is expected to avoid predicted 1,888 ha of deforestation, equating to 782,072 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 26,069 tCO2e.


Project 4265
The REDD+ Café Apuí Agroforestry (CAA) project aims to expand the production chain of agroforestry coffee in southeastern Amazonas and avoid deforestation of native forests on rural properties in the municipalities of Apuí, Manicoré and Novo Aripuanã, in the state of Amazonas, Brazil. In the absence of the project, forests on the participating properties would be cleared for agricultural activities, especially pastures, for income generation. REDD+ CAA is a 30-year grouped project that will have periodic membership of new participants over the first ten years. The initial project's participants are 42 family farmers (Project Activity Instances – PAI) that totalize a PA of 3.696 hectares around the town of Apuí (50km) in Amazonas State/Brazil. The project has a defined geographical area within which instances of project activities are located, totalling 19,874 km2. This area is composed of native forests and agricultural areas, mainly planted pastures, in addition to some enclaves of non-forest pioneer formations. The project is based on long-term (30-yr) agreements with landowners to avoid deforestation in their areas in exchange for performance-based payment for avoided deforestation. In addition to monitoring, reporting, verification, and leakage mitigation activities, VCU revenues will be invested in agroforestry implementation, technical assistance, organic certification processes, administration, and marketing of coffee and other agroforestry products. The project aims to expand agroforestry coffee production using agroecological techniques and trained personnel in organic production promoted since 2012 in the region. The project intends to generate climate, community and biodiversity benefits under CCB standard. The payment for avoided deforestation, investment in the agroforestry coffee chain, and support for the structuring of new agroforestry product chains offer an alternative sustainable income to producers while maintaining conserved forests.


Project 4288
The purpose of BRASCARBON Methane Recovery Project BCA-BRA-18 project is to utilize the effluent produced on a total of 7 pig farms in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, cities of Jarei and Gloria de Dourados, Brazil, to capture methane and generate biogas. The projects have the potential to generate energy from waste using the biogas produced and captured. Regardless this potential, energy will not be a part of this project activity. Before the project activity, local farmers considered waste as an externality in the pig production process. As such, minimal finance was allocated to this issue and wastewater was often treated in open water lagoons – frequently with profound environmental impacts. The projects demonstrate how the construction of a set of new, covered, in-ground anaerobic digesters can utilize the organic material from the animal operations to produce biogas and fertilizer, whilst reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The basis of the projects is the anaerobic digestion, whereby microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen. As part of an integrated waste management system, anaerobic digestion reduces the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and produces a rich biogas, suitable for energy production, which can be used to replace fossil fuels. The nutrient-rich solids left after digestion are used as fertilizer and the better wastewater management allows more water for irrigation.


Project 4289
The purpose of BRASCARBON Methane Recovery Project BCA-BRA-19 project is to utilize the effluent produced on a total of 10 pig farms in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, in Brazil, to capture methane and generate biogas. The projects have the potential to generate energy from waste using the biogas produced and captured. Regardless this potential, energy will not be a part of this project activity. Before the project activity, local farmers considered waste as an externality in the pig production process. As such, minimal finance was allocated to this issue and wastewater was often treated in open water lagoons – frequently with profound environmental impacts. The projects demonstrate how the construction of a set of new, covered, in-ground anaerobic digesters can utilize the organic material from the animal operations to produce biogas and fertilizer, whilst reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The basis of the projects is the anaerobic digestion, whereby microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen. As part of an integrated waste management system, anaerobic digestion reduces the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and produces a rich biogas, suitable for energy production, which can be used to replace fossil fuels. The nutrient-rich solids left after digestion are used as fertilizer and the better wastewater management allows more water for irrigation.


Project 4391
The project area is located within 3 private properties, located in the municipalities of Vila Rica, inthe State of Acre, Brazil, inserted in an area Amazon biome. The project aims to avoid unplanned deforestation in a project area of 58,487.50 ha. The REDD+CCB project is expected to avoid predicted deforestation of 10,354,998 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime (Dec 01,2022-Nov 30,2052), with an annual average of 345,167 tCO2e. The objective is to originate- with characteristics of a REDD+CCB initiative, following the Project Cycle of the VM0015 Methodology for Avoided Unplanned Deforestation, v1.1 Methodology. Thus, such VCUs may, in the future, be accounted for in Brazil's Nationally Determined Contributions Emission Reductions efforts, within the framework of the Paris Climate Agreement, as they are negotiated between different parties, within the framework of the voluntary markets for carbon credit negotiations. Since the proiect will originate from the characteristics of a REDD+ initiative, it will contribute to efforts to reduce deforestation of the Amazon Biome in Brazil, resulting in the preservation of biodiversity in one of the most important tropical forests on the planet and in the restoration and preservation of the conditions of Climate Regulation of the Earth. It is therefore important that the Project is added to the methodological efforts provided for in the CCB Program- so that the VCUs eligible for the validation of the methodological quality are also valued considering the methodological efforts validated by the CCB Program. The project's social engagement creates a support base to ensure preservation and sustainable use of the forest. Social engagement at all stages is important so the actions to be developed are inclusive and transparent, in processes that allow communities and stakeholders to actively participate to ensure that the project generates legacies with positive social and environmental impacts.


Project 4394
The Jatobá project will be developed in the municipality of Boca do Acre, state of Amazonas, Brazil, within the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Uses (AFOLU) sector under the Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) category. The project will conserve 94,090.42 hectares of native Amazon rainforests in a region where deforestation pressure is mainly due to land use conversion activities from forests to pastures aimed at raising livestock. The project area (18,017.19 ha) will be allocated to Avoided Planned Deforestation (APD), and it is estimated that at the end of the project the emission of 5,440,804 tons of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) (tCO2e) will have been avoided. The project will be developed considering the CCB Standards, with benefits for the Climate, Community and Biodiversity. As benefits to the climate, the maintenance of forest cover results in exceptional benefits for adapting to the impacts caused by climate change. As benefits to the communities, the project will enable water security and access to information to minimize the impacts caused by climate change in traditional, low-income extractive communities. It is noteworthy that the project includes a high priority area for biodiversity conservation, as it is located within a Key Biodiversity Area (KBA), harboring species endemic to the Brazilian Amazon and species classified as Vulnerable (VU), Critically Endangered (CR) and Endangered (EN) with extinction according to the IUCN.


Project 4430
Investancia Brasil Ltda (Investancia) is undertaking a Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) grouped reforestation project, known as Reflorestamento de Impacto no Brasil Project. The Project is planting pongamia (Pongamia pinnata) and other tree species in degraded pastures across Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil in areas that were cleared of native forests more than ten years prior to the projects’ start date. Investancia is developing a business model to establish pongamia as a regional commodity in a region where agriculture, other than cattle-ranching, is extremely difficult to make work. The focus of Investancia’s business is four-fold: 1) Production of reforestation oil; 2) Maintaining cattle or hay on silvopastoral lands with improved pastures; 3) Providing protein (i.e., feed) for cattle from the pongamia seedcake; and 4) Sequestering carbon dioxide in the pongamia trees (i.e., generate carbon offset credits). To date, Investancia has established a nursery, explored the suitability of pongamia in the region, developed protocols, assessed various genetic strains of pongamia, and spoken with numerous local landowners about leasing land. The Reflorestamento de Impacto no Brasil Project will sequester carbon dioxide and generate GHG emission removals in the planted pongamia trees and in the soil following the reforestation of degraded pasture.


Project 4448
The Raízes do Bem Grouped ARR Project aims to implement the reforestation with multifunctional forests in degraded lands and ecological restoration using species with timber potential and native species in the Cerrado and Amazon biomes located in the States of Mato Grosso do Sul and Mato Grosso, in Brazil. The project area will remove GHG through the photosynthesis, a natural process of plants. Thus, the plants will gradually provide the ecosystem service of removing atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) and storing carbon in the biomass. The First Instance is expected to generate around 28,408.86 tCO2e during the 60 years crediting period (15-October-2020 to 14-October-2080), with an annual average of 473.48 tCO2e/year.


Project 4461
The REDD+ Tauari Forest Conservation Project is a partnership between Mata Nativa BR and MyCarbon and deals with the preservation of the Amazon rainforest in line with the traditions of local populations and the sustainable development of the region, through activities that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to the increase of global warming. The project area is located in the northern region of Brazil, more specifically in the municipality of Tarauacá, state of Acre. The 126,157.8211 ha of tropical forests that are part of the project area are located in the Amazon biome. Avoiding a scenario of logging in 85% of the area, a truly sustainable economic activity was sought, which discards the suppression, even if authorized, of the existing vegetation, and also preserves the existing biodiversity in the glebe, with the cooperation of the local populations, through this project. The activities designed here aim to ensure that forest areas belonging to the project are preserved, continuing the important work of generating ecosystem services there, such as climate regulation, protection of water sources, maintenance of biodiversity and genetics heritage, among others, and also ensuring that 119,812,777.36 tons of CO2 are not released into the atmosphere.


Project 4476
The Grouped Project Sul da Bahia falls under the Afforestation, Reforestation and Revegetation (ARR) category and targeting the following Verra certifications: Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), and Climate, Community & Biodiversity Standard (CCB). The project aims to restore forest formations that are diminished due to the expansion of other land use practices such as overgrazing on extensive cattle ranches, intensive agriculture and silviculture systems. The grouped project is located in the Atlantic Forest biome in the state of Bahia (Brazil). Restoration is attained through forestation activities using native and non-native species. Project activities also include harvesting and establishing agroforestry systems to diversify and maximize project benefits for all parties and communities involved. The overarching goal of the project is to create a biodiverse forest cover that combines carbon capture, biodiversity and community impacts with a diversity of economic functions such as sustainable production of crops and forest products.


Project 4485
Forest conservation at the BRArbo property, located in the municipalities of Juruá, Jutaí and Carauari, State of Amazonas. Forest conservation will be achieved through a combination of sustainable forest management in an area of 130,641 ha and surveillance in the remaining area of the project, of 543,721 ha. The project will address the needs of local populations and promote biodiversity conservation in the area.


Project 4497
The objective of the Amazon Partners (AP) 20 Project is to originate -with the characteristics of a REDD+ initiative (Reduction of Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation), following the Project Cycle of the VM0015 Methodology for Avoided Unplanned Deforestation, v1.1 Methodology. Thus, such Verified Carbon Units (VCU) may, in the future, be accounted for in Brazil's Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) Emission Reductions efforts, in the framework of the Paris Climate Agreement, as much as they are negotiated between different parties, within the framework of the voluntary markets for carbon credit negotiations. The Project will avoid Greenhouse Gas Emissions at the Territory of Indigenous Peoples of the Shawadawa Association, in the municipality of Porto Walter, in the State of Acre, Amazon Biome of the Brazilian Territory. Since AP 20 is originating from the characteristics of a REDD+ initiative, it will contribute to efforts to reduce deforestation of the Amazon Biome in Brazil, resulting in the preservation of biodiversity in one of the most important tropical forest areas on the planet. The Project adds to the methodological efforts provided for in the Climate, Community & Biodiversity (CCB) Program – so that the VCUs eligible for the validation of the methodological quality of the project are also valued considering the methodological efforts validated by the CCB Program. The development of the integrated Amazon Partners 20 Project provides for social engagement to create a support base to ensure the preservation of the forest. Social engagement at all stages of the process is important so that the actions to be developed are inclusive and transparent, in processes that allow nearby communities and other stakeholders in the project to actively participate, closely following to ensure that the project generates legacies with positive social and environmental impacts.


Project 4509
This grouped project consists of planting Macaúba trees (Acrocomia aculeata) within agrosilvopastoral systems on non-forestland (primarily degraded pastureland) in the Vale do Paraíba region in São Paulo State, Brazil. Macaúba is a native palm tree that is drought and disease tolerant and uses 70% less water than the common commercial African palm, while still producing fruits that can be processed into commercial palm oil products (e.g. pulp and kernel oil, livestock fodder, biofuel, and fertilizer). The Vale do Paraíba region, located within the Atlantic Forest biome, is characterized by abundant biodiversity and endemism in its original form. However, due to extensive land-use changes that occurred over the centuries, it now exists in a fragmented state. Extensive low-productivity cattle grazing is currently the dominant land management regime in the project region. Cultivating Macaúba on those lands has the potential to slow soil erosion, store carbon in tree biomass, regulate the micro-climate, and promote biodiversity. The integration of Macaúba palm trees with cattle grazing and cropland will diversify and increase income to local farming and ranching communities without displacing commercial or subsistence activities. Whenever possible, the plantings will connect forest fragments to create ecological corridors that promote flux of genes through migration, dispersal, linkage and interrelation of populations of wild flora and fauna, all of which are important to biodiversity. This project has the potential to remove on average 42,396 tCO2e annually throughout the project crediting period, with an estimated total of 847,925 tCO2e over the twenty-year crediting period in the form of aboveground and belowground tree biomass and soil organic carbon.


Project 4535
Logum Logística S.A (hereafter referred to as Logum) is a company formed through the partnership of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A (PETROBRAS), COPERSUCAR S.A, Raizen Energia S.A and Uniduto Logística S.A to implement and operate a pipeline structure for the ethanol transportation from sugarcane mills to Final Delivery Stations (FDSs). The project has already 1,100 kilometres of pipelines under operation in the Southeast of Brazil, contemplating the states of Minas Gerais, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. The project will expand its operations in phases. Each phase will be treated as an instance which will be added in a grouped project. This document refers to the phase 1 that consists in implementing 3 terminals: Guarulhos, São Caetano do Sul and São José dos Campos. The project boundaries are set to allow future instances as the project advances to the next phases of implementation.


Project 4542
The Amazônidas REDD+ AUDD Grouped Project (hereafter called GPD) aims to avoid unplanned deforestation in private and public properties at Amazonas State. The scalability area of the GPD was defined based on the Brazil regional division by IBGE of 20171, as the sum of the Tefé, Parintins, Manaus, and Lábrea intermediate geographic regions in the Amazonas state, excluding the immediate geographic regions of Coari, Tefé, and Tabatinga. This region has long been recognized for its alarming rates of deforestation within the Amazon biome, and its forests face an escalated risk of deforestation. Initially, the present GPD is composed of thirty-five properties with 251,706.41 hectares of forest cover, split into four municipalities: Itacoatiara, Itapiranga, Silves and Presidente Figueiredo. The climate benefits brought with this GPD are directed related to the emission reduction of 124,528 tCO2e in average per year, calculated with a 6-year jurisdictional baseline. The actions involving the implementation of Amazônidas REDD+ AUDD GPD are complementary to the grouped projects developed by brCarbon. Through these projects, in accordance with current federal and state environmental laws, brCarbon seeks to promote integral forest conservation actions in rural properties with remaining vegetation, promote solutions based on nature in its regions of influence, generating co-benefits not only for the climate (reduction and removal of emissions), but also communities and local biodiversity. Furthermore, the Amazônidas REDD+ AUDD GPD aims to create positive economic incentives for landowners to conserve rainforests in areas that are vulnerable to degradation and deforestation, while contributing to net positive climate impacts as well as benefit to traditional communities and conserve biodiversity.


Project 4552
The Uákiry REDD+ Grouped Project (hereafter called GPD), aims to avoid unplanned deforestation in private properties at Acre State. The area of deforestation involving three states in the north of Brazil has increased significantly in recent years, where before it was well preserved, the region known by the acronym AMACRO (where the states of Amazonas, Acre and Rondônia are located) has literally become no man's land. The lack of control caused cases of land grabbing and other crimes linked to the expansion of the agricultural frontier to explode. The region came to be known as the new Deforestation Frontier. Initially the first four project activity instance is composed by four properties with 84,220 ha of forest cover, located in the Iaco River margins, one of Purus River affluents, in the Amazon basin. Through these projects, BrCarbon (hereafter known as BRC) and Yaco2 Gestão e Comércio de Carbono (Yaco2) seeks to promote integral forest conservation actions generating co-benefits not only for the climate (reduction and removal of emissions), but also communities and local biodiversity. At the validation, the climate benefits are directed related with the emission reduction of 215,021 tCO2e in average per year. By joining BRC forest program, landowners can access funds from the carbon voluntary market to develop conservation and monitoring efforts in their forests. A partnership between BRC and landowners will result in the legal protection of forests, forest monitoring using satellite images, biodiversity inventory (including fauna e flora species), and forest biomass inventory in a broad scale, using an upscaling approach based on field collection, drone-borne and satellite sensors such as LiDAR (light detection and ranging). In addition, we will involve property surveillance, wildfire monitoring, fire prevention and fighting, threatened species protection and long-term social activities with local communities.


Project 4562
The proposed VCS project activity titled “Içara Landfill Gas Project” encompasses the promotion of collection and destruction/utilization of landfill gas (LFG) (rich in methane) through collection LFG and its destruction in high temperature open flare(s) and utilization as gaseous fuel in engine-generator sets of an electricity generation infrastructure, and a LFG upgrading plant that produces biomethane for thermal use.


Project 4592
The Symbiosis Continuous Cover Forest Project is a reforestation project, proposed by Symbiosis Investimentos e Participações S.A., a company focused on the restoration of degraded land through the sustainable commercial reforestation of the Atlantic Rainforest native species. The Atlantic Forest Biome (Mata Atlântica) is the most degraded in Brazil, with less than 12.4% left of its original area and very fragmented. The degradation started in the 16th century in the State of Bahia. Today, the same pattern of destruction is seen in the Amazon Biome, which started in the 70’s after the Atlantic Rainforest resources were depleted. In addition, plant breeding with the Atlantic Forest native species has not been implemented before. The project is designed as a grouped project, with an initial instance at “Fazenda Novo Horizonte”, in Trancoso District of Porto Seguro municipality, Bahia State. It is situated in close proximity to Symbiosis headquarters, where seedlings are produced and where research and development activities take place. Novo Horizonte has a total area of 669.28 ha, from which 236.50 consist of the initial project area. Symbiosis expansion plans for the grouped project are focused on the South of Bahia, with projected 50,000 hectares of mixed species reforestation, in addition to 15,000 hectares of ecological restoration and 5,000 hectares of agroforestry with cocoa (also a relevant product of the region). The land use in the region is predominantly focused on pasture, which is also the prior condition of all of the regions where the grouped project is intended to occur. The project is designed for a 30-year crediting period, in which 24,311,876 tCO2e will be reduced/removed.


Project 4593
The main objective of the project Cycling the Change Latin America is to promote the sustainable mobility at the cities covered by the grouped project through the implementation of new bicycle sharing programs with sharing stations. Beyond that the program aims at the expansion of the existing parking areas, expansion of existing bikes and introduction of e-bikes.


Project 4633
The Fortaleza Ituxi II REDD+ Project aims at protecting private forests located in one of the regions having the highest deforestation rate in the Amazon Biome: the municipality of Lábrea. The south region of the municipality of Lábrea has already been reached by the “Arc of Deforestation”: for the last 10 years, Lábrea has been one of the most deforested municipalities in the Amazon Biome. Besides the damage caused to natural ecosystems, the land-use changes have provoked severe social conflicts through processes of land-grabbing and installation of agriculture and cattle ranching activities, contributing to the expulsion of family-scale forest extractives from that region. The primary objective of the Fortaleza Ituxi II REDD+ Project is to avoid planned (APD) and unplanned (AUD) deforestation in an area of 69,185.87 ha of Amazonian forest. The APD REDD project area is expected to avoid a predicted 5,153.00 ha of legal deforestation, equating to 1,721,301 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, an annual average of 57,376 tCO2e. The AUD REDD project area is expected to avoid a predicted 64,023.44 ha of illegal deforestation, equating to 16,066,567 tCO2e in emissions reductions over the 30-year project lifetime, with an annual average of 535,552 tCO2e.


Project 4671
The TAUARI REDD+ PROJECT aims to protect 21 016. 3 8 hectare s of Amazon rainforest located in Aripuanã and Juína m u nicipalities Mato Grosso State, Brazil The project promotes forest conservation and estimates to reduce 1,908,218 tCO 2 e (average of 63 ,607 tCO 2 e/year) in 30 years by A voiding U nplanned D eforestation ( in four farms which are Continental, União, Recanto do Sinuelo and Cachoeir inha.


Project 4681
The YBYRÁ REDD+ Project is a unique REDD+ Project, composed by 74 rural private properties with a project area of 76,481.34 hectare of Amazon rainforest. The project is located in four municipalities: Paragominas, Ipixuna do Pará, Tomé-Açu and Ulianópolis, in the state of Pará, Brazil. The main goals are forest conservation and reduction of GHG emissions of 12,065,803.14 tCO2 in 30 years by avoiding deforestation of 38,317.74 ha in the Project area. Pará explores unsustainably the Amazon Forest since its historical occupation. In 2021, almost 25% deforested areas in Brazil were in Pará. The document known as “Deforestation Arc” presented a list with 52 cities considered priority for prevention, monitoring, and control actions against deforestation in the Amazonian region (decree nº 6.321/2007 and Ordinance n° 428 (2018) by the Ministry of Environment). The list includes Paragominas and Ulianópolis. The deforestation of the amazon forest in the region of the project is due to anthropic activities: timber exploration, pasture for cattle raising and agriculture. The pressure on turning forest into non-forested areas is consequence of the expansion of these economic activities, leading to invasions of private properties. For the project region, the main land use activity is the implementation of pasture for cattle raising. In relation to the social aspects, most of the communities are formed by rural farmers with social vulnerabilities, with presence of food insecurity, low income and lack of job opportunity. Considering the aspects presented, the Project’s main goals, through conservation of forest areas and combating deforestation of the Amazon Forest, are: 1) To promote adaptations to climate change in the region; 2) To improve the quality of life of the population that lives close to the forest and 3) To conserve biodiversity and ecosystem services, through environmental education actions and foment initiatives to connect forest fragments of the PA.


Project 4687
The Tueré REDD+ Project is a partnership between Biofílica Ambipar Environment and Brascomp Compensados do Brasil S.A. and aims to promote forest conservation, maintain carbon stocks and mitigate climate change by reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from land use changes. In addition to climate benefits, the Project also aims to generate social benefits based on sustainable economic development practices and improving the well-being of surrounding communities, in addition to environmental benefits through actions aimed at the conservation of local fauna and flora. The Project Area has 135,342 ha of Amazon forest, located in the mesoregion of Marajó, in the municipality of Portel, state of Pará, and is located on the banks of the Anapu and Tueré Rivers. Communities have been identified that are directly or indirectly influenced by the Project, and that are geographically close to the Project Area and depend on its ecosystem services.


Project 4729
The grouped project proposed by SADA Participações Ltda (hereinafter SADA), “Reforestation activities in Brazil for carbon removals from the atmosphere”, consists of the implementation of new plantations of African mahogany (e.g. Khaya grandifoliola and Khaya senegalensis) and Australian cedar (e.g. Toona ciliata) in the state of Goiás (GO), in the Midwest region of Brazil. This region is notably marked by the historical tradition in livestock activities and, more recently, by the implementation of agricultural activities.

